TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE ZONING APPEALS MEETING.
I'M CANDICE BREYER, CHAIRPERSON
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
.
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS IS
A NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY JOHN BARRETT, THEN
THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
STAFF WILL KEEP TIME AND WILL
ANNOUNCE WHEN 30 SECONDS
REMAINING PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AVAILABLE IN PERSON OR REMOTELY
.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STAR
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE A RAISE HAND FEATURE IF
VIEWING THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TWO
FOUR SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID
NINE THREE EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR
EIGHT ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY
STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT
HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK YOU WILL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
>> WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT ON A TIMELY
BASIS.
>> ROLL CALL CANDICE I AM HERE
DAVE DEVOTEE HERE PETIT
LASKOWSKI HERE.
>> JULIE WEATHERBEE
HERE.
DREW DENSON HERE.
MIKE DANIEL DERMO ECKMANN HERE
.
>> CHRISTINA GUZIK HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE THAT THE PETITIONER
FOR A SECOND ITEM ON OUR AGENDA
TONIGHT SEEB TWENTY FIVE ZERO
ZERO TWO FIVE TWO TWO ZERO ONE
LAFAYETTE ROAD HAS REQUESTED TO
BE POSTPONE TO THE DECEMBER
THIRD MEETING.
SO WE CAN REMOVE THAT ITEM FROM
OUR AGENDA THIS EVENING AND I
SEE THAT BACK HERE AGAIN IN
DECEMBER AND EVERYTHING AFTER
THAT I'LL JUST KIND OF MOVE UP
ONE SPOT.
SO WITH THAT ADJUSTMENT DO I
HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOTION FROM JULIE
SUPPORT, SUPPORT, SUPPORT FROM
PERIO ALL IN FAVOR SAY AY AY
I'LL POST.
>> ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO APPROVE MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE
SEPTEMBER 24TH.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ZIBA
MEETING.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS,
COMMENTS, CORRECTIONS TO THOSE
MINUTES?
IF NOT, DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES?
THANK YOU DARMA.
SUPPORT THANK YOU JULIE IN
FAVOR SAY AY AY AY POST.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MINUTES APPROVED.
MOVING ON TO OUR FIRST PUBLIC
HEARING TONIGHT PETITION QUBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
TWO THREE ZERO ONE THREE ONE
ONE THREE ONE FIVE THREE ONE
SEVEN AND THREE ONE NINE W HERE
ON STREET AND ONE OR TWO AND
ONE OH SIX S FIRST THREE JOHN.
I'M JOHN BARRETT, ZONING
COORDINATOR FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR AND AS CANDICE SAID THIS
IS ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO
ZERO TWO TWO BRANDYN CHENEY
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING A HEIGHT VARIANCE
OF FIFTY NINE FEET 11 INCHES
FOR THE TOTAL PROPOSED BUILDING
HEIGHT OF ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SEVEN FEET 11 INCHES
WHICH INCLUDES THE MECHANICAL
SCREENING.
THE SITE IS PARTIALLY LOCATED
IN A FLOODWAY FRINGE IN ZONE D
TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE.
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE ALSO KNOWN AS THE DC TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH SIX
DOWNTOWN CHARACTER OVERLAY
ZONING DISTRICTS BUILDING
MACING STANDARDS ALLOWS FOR A
MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
OF SIXTY FEET AND THE D TO
FIRST STREET CHARACTER OVERLAY
DISTRICT WHICH APPLY TO THIS
PROJECT LOCATION.
THIS IS A SITE PLAN PROJECT AND
WE HAVE A PLANNER HERE THIS
EVENING FROM THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR PLANNING DEPARTMENT JULIA
SHAK AND THIS IS HER SITE PLAN
PROJECT AND SHE'S GOING TO TAKE
OVER PART OF THE PRESENTATION
AT THIS TIME.
JULIA.
THERE WE GO.
I THANK THANK YOU.
UH, MR. BARRETT, A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT THE BACKGROUND
OF THIS PROPOSED VARIANCE
REQUEST, THE REQUESTED VARIANCE
IS PART OF A PROPOSED PROJECT
FOR THE SAME SITE THREE FIFTEEN
W HERE ON SITE PLANNED FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION AS P TWENTY
FIVE ZERO ZERO ONE FOUR IS A
PROPOSED PLAN FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION OF A FULLY
ELECTRIC TEN STOREY MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT FEATURING TWO
HUNDRED EIGHTY UNITS A
COFFEE SHOP, RETAIL, AN
AMENDMENT AND MANY SPACES.
>> THE GROUND FLOOR WOULD BE
MOSTLY COMPRISED OF COVERED
PARKING INCLUDING THE EV
CHARGING WITH ACCESS FROM WEST
WASHINGTON STREET ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE COMBINED PARCELS.
THE FIRST FLOOR WOULD HAVE
ADDITIONAL COVERED PARKING AND
COFFEE RETAIL SPACE ACCESS FROM
SOUTH STREET FOUR TO ONE
THROUGH TEN WOULD CONTAIN A
MIXTURE OF STUDIO ONE AND TWO
BEDROOMS WITH 15 PERCENT UNITS
RESERVED FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
BASED ON THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
DEFINITION SO THAT A LITTLE BIT
MORE CONTEXT FOR THE SERVICE
REQUEST PARENTS REQUEST IS ON
TOP.
SO THE HEIGHT RESTRICTION FOR
THIS AREA IS SIXTY FEET BASED
ON THE DOWN TO THE FIRST THREE
OVERLAKE DISTRICT.
SO IN DOWNTOWN AREAS THERE'S D1
D2 ZONING DISTRICTS AND THEN
THERE ARE ALSO OVERLAY
DISTRICTS.
THERE'S ACTUALLY THREE LAYERS
OF ZONING BASED REGULATIONS FOR
DOWNTOWN AREAS AND THERE'S ALSO
STREET DESIGNATIONS PRIMARY OR
SECONDARY DESIGNATION CITY OR A
LITTLE BIT MORE WITH DESIGN
OF THE DESIGN OF THE FACADES.
BUT THERE'S THESE THREE LAYERS
OF OF ZONING AND URBAN DESIGN
REGULATIONS FOR OUR DOWNTOWN
AREA.
SO THIS IS INDEED TO AND IN THE
FIRST THREE OVERLAY DISTRICT
FIRST STREET OR REALLY DISTRICT
MAPS BUILDING HIGH IS 60 FEET
BUT DEVELOPERS ARE ALSO ALLOWED
TO APPLY FOR A 30 PERCENT
HEIGHT BONUS BY EITHER
PROVIDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
SUSTAINABILITY.
THIS PROJECT PROPOSES TO DO
BOTH BUT D TO BONUSES
ESSENTIALLY ARE NOT CUMULATIVE.
>> SO YOU WOULD GET THIRTY
PERCENT WHETHER YOU DECIDE TO
OFFER ONE OR THE OTHER OR AND
MEETING THE CRITERIA AS DEFINED
IN THE UDC OR BOTH SO I WOULD
TAKE IT TO SEVENTY EIGHT FEET
ABOVE THE SEVENTY EIGHT FEET
THE THE VARIOUS REQUEST FOR
FIFTY NINE FEET 11 INCHES TO
STAFF TOOK A LOOK AT THE
VARIANCE REQUEST AND TANDEM
WITH THE SITE PLAN.
THE SITE PLAN HAS BEEN
SUBMITTED AND IS ACCESSIBLE
THROUGH STREAM AND STAFF
RECOGNIZE THAT IT RECOGNIZES
THAT THERE ARE SPECIFIC
FEATURES TO DESPITE THIS SITE
NOTABLY THE ANN ARBOR RAILROAD
ON THE WEST SIDE THE AMENDING
OUR BUILDING ON THE EAST SIDE
AND ITS SOUTHEAST SIDE AND THE
FLOODWAY FRINGE WHICH IS
LOCATED ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE PARCEL AND A SMALL
POCKET ON THE VERY SOUTHERN TIP
OF THE PARCEL OF THE FLOODWAY
FRINGE ENCOMPASSES
APPROXIMATELY ELEVEN POINT FOUR
PERCENT OF THE TOTAL LOT AREA
OF THE TWO COMBINED PARCELS.
ADDITIONALLY, A NOTABLE PORTION
OF THE FLOODWAY FRINGE AREA
OVERLAPS WITH THE AREA ABUTTING
THE RAILROAD ON THE WEST SIDE
THE TOTAL COMBINED POZOLE
PERIMETER OF OF THE TWO PARCELS
OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT IS
APPROXIMATELY NINE HUNDRED
NINETY FIVE FEET OF THIS
APPROXIMATELY FORTY FIVE FEET
OF THE FLAT LINE ABUTS THE
AMENDING OUR BUILDING ON EAST
AND SOUTH EAST SIDE AND ONE
HUNDRED AND FORTY FEET IS A LAW
IS A BUILDING WALL ALONG THE
RAILROAD THE WEST SIDE LOOKING
AT THE COMBINED DEVELOPMENT
REQUIREMENTS SO WE TALKED ABOUT
D1, D2 VERSUS D2.
THIS IS INDEED TWO AND THEN THE
FIRST THREE ARE REALLY
DISTRICT.
>> THERE ARE OTHER DEVELOPMENT
REQUIREMENTS AND ZONING AND
STANDARDS THAT NEED TO BE MET
IN THE D TO DOWNTOWN INTERFACE
ZONING DISTRICT.
>> THE MAXIMUM PERMITTED
BUILDING COVERAGE OF LA AREA IS
EIGHTY EIGHTY PERCENT.
THIS IS FOUND IN UDC TABLE FIVE
SEVENTEEN FIVE THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT AS SUBMITTED IN P
TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO ONE FOR
AND CURRENTLY UNDER REVIEW HAS
A BUILDING COVERAGE OF SEVENTY
EIGHT PERCENT.
IN OTHER WORDS THE THE PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT HAS DEMONSTRATED
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT UNDER
THE SITE PLAN HAS DEMONSTRATED
THE ABILITY TO AVOID THESE
THREE POTENTIALLY COMPLICATED
DEVELOPMENT ISSUES A FLOODWAY
FRINGE, THE RAILROAD AND
OMNICARE BUILDING WHILE STILL
ALMOST MAXING OUT THE MAXIMUM
BUILDING COVERAGE FOR THE SITE
AT SEVENTY EIGHT PERCENT AS IT
IS EIGHTY PERCENT WHILE THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS CITED MAY
CONSTRAIN DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
ON THE SITE TO SOME DEGREE, THE
PROPOSED SITE PLAN DEMONSTRATES
THAT THIS DEBATE THE
POSSIBILITY OF A DEVELOPMENT
SCENARIO THAT ADDRESSES THESE
CHALLENGES WHILE ALSO COVERING
70 PERCENT OF THE LOTERIA.
THEREFORE THE IDENTIFIED
CONSTRAINTS DO NOT APPEAR TO
MEANINGFULLY LIMIT THE
APPLICANT'S ABILITY TO ACHIEVE
THE DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL AS
ALLOWED BY THE UDC THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE WHEN LOOKING
AT ALL OF THE DEVELOPMENT
REGULATIONS FOR THESE PARCELS
AS A WHOLE.
>> THANK YOU.
SO I WILL GO THROUGH THE
POWERPOINT PRESENTATION AS YOU
CAN SEE ON THE TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS.
THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE ZONING
MAP SHOWING THE LOCATION OF THE
PROPOSED PROJECT IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN THE TWO PARCELS
YOU'VE GOT THE THREE HUNDRED
WEST, YOUR ADDRESSES AND THEN
YOU'VE GOT THE ONE OR TWO IN
THE ONE TO SIX S FIRST STREET
ADDRESSES RIGHT HERE.
>> THE TWO PARCELS COMBINE AND
YOU SEE THE ADJACENT RAILROAD
TRACKS AND THERE'S THE
FLOODPLAIN TO THE WEST.
THESE ARE THE OVER THE DOWNTOWN
CHARACTER DISTRICT AREAS AND AS
THIS ONE IS IN THE FIRST STREET
OVERLAY DISTRICT YOU CAN SEE IT
IN GREEN AND IT'S THE
PROPERTIES RIGHT THERE.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE CURRENT
CONDITIONS AND ADJACENT
PROPERTIES MAP AND THE NEXT
SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
OVERALL PROJECT AND THE
APPLICATION AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS THE PROPOSED BUILDING
FOOTPRINT.
YOU CAN SEE IT HIGHLIGHTED IN
BOLD ALL THE WAY AROUND THE
PROPERTY ADJACENT AS JULIA
STATED THAT THE AMENDING OR
BUILDING AND THE FLOODPLAIN THE
RAILROAD TRACKS TO THE WEST.
NEXT SLIDE IS A GROUND FLOOR
OF THE PROPOSED BUILDING THE
GROUND FLOOR FLOOR PLAN.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE FIRST FLOOR
FLOOR PLAN SECOND AND THIRD ONE
SECOND THE FOURTH OR THE NINTH
AND THEN THE TENTH AND THE ROOF
PLAN.
>> THESE ARE SOME NORTHEAST AND
SOUTHEAST PERSPECTIVES OF THE
PROPOSED BUILDING AND THE
ELEVATIONS AND HOW THEY'LL LOOK
FROM THE STREET.
THESE ARE MORE NORTH AND SOUTH
BUILDING SECTIONS.
THESE ARE THE EAST AND WEST
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT WE
BUILDING SECTIONS.
TOOK OF THE CURRENT CONDITIONS
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT WE
OF THE PROPERTY.
TOOK OF THE CURRENT CONDITIONS
YOU SEE IS RIGHT AT THE
OF THE PROPERTY.
INTERSECTION OF HURON AND FIRST
YOU SEE IS RIGHT AT THE
EVERYONE IS PROBABLY FAMILIAR
INTERSECTION OF HURON AND FIRST
WITH THE SUBJECT BUILDINGS AND
EVERYONE IS PROBABLY FAMILIAR
THEN THERE'S THE ALLMENDINGER
WITH THE SUBJECT BUILDINGS AND
IN THE BACKGROUND
.
THIS IS LOOKING DIRECTLY WEST
DOWN HERE ON STREET AND ON THE
SIDEWALK AND THE NORTH FACE
OF THE EXISTING BUILDING.
THIS IS LOOKING EAST DOWN HERE
ON STREET THE OPPOSITE
DIRECTION.
>> THIS IS THE CURRENT BUILDING
AS IT RELATES TO THE AT THE FAR
WEST END AND ADJACENT TO THE
RAILROAD TRACKS
.
THIS IS FROM THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE PARKING LOT AND THE THE
ALLMENDINGER BUILDING TO THE
RIGHT AND THE BACK SIDE THE
SOUTH SIDE OF THE BUILDING
RIGHT NOW PICTURE OF THE
PARKING LOT
.
JULIA, COULD YOU COMMENT ON
THAT SLIDE RIGHT THERE?
>> YES.
THIS SHOWS THE THE CURRENT
BUILDING THIS IS ON FIRST
STREET ON THE LEFT SIDE OF THE
BUILDING, OUR BUILDING AND ON
THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE FRAME IS
ONE OF THE EXISTING BUILDINGS
THAT WOULD BE PROPOSED TO BE
TORN DOWN UM THAT THERE THE
BUILDINGS ARE CURRENTLY BUILT
RIGHT UP TO THE FLAT LINE JUST
TO GIVE THAT CONTEXT.
THANK YOU.
AND JUST A PHOTO FROM THE
RAILROAD TRACKS LOOKING
EASTWARD AT THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THIS SHOWS ALSO
IF YOU'RE SORRY TO INTERRUPT
SHOWS THAT THE BUILDING THE
EXISTING BUILDING THAT THE
EMBANKMENT FOR THE RAILROAD
FLYOVER UP UP HERE ON THIS WALL
APPEARS TO BE KIND OF HAS
BECOME WHETHER INTENTIONALLY OR
NOT PART OF THAT SUPPORT
STRUCTURE FOR THAT EMBANKMENT.
>> IT SERVES AS THAT THAT
FUNCTION AT LEAST TODAY
THAT
CONCLUDES THE STAFF
PRESENTATION AT THIS TIME AND
JULIA OR MYSELF CAN TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE.
WE ALSO HAVE ADDITIONAL SLIDES
WHEN THE APPLICANT COMES TO THE
PODIUM.
>> THANK JULIA.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR STAFF?
SO I GUESS FOR JULIA YOU
REFERENCED THE POTENTIAL
BONUSES AND ONE OF THEM YOU
SAID AFFORDABLE HOUSING BASED
ON A CITY VANCOUVER DEFINITION
AND WHAT IS THAT?
WHAT ARE THEY PROVIDING?
WHAT IS THE DEFINITION AND WHAT
ARE THEY PROVIDING TO MEET THAT
DEFINITION OF PROPOSING TO
PROVIDE ONE SECOND IT'S
FIFTEEN.
I WAS WORKING EXACT NUMBERS.
FIFTEEN UNITS ARE FIFTEEN
PRESENTLY UNITS RESERVED FOR
HOUSEHOLDS AT SIXTY PERCENT
OF THE AREA MEDIAN INCOME AND
WHAT'S THE CURRENT AREA?
>> MEDIAN INCOME.
I CAN LOOK THAT UP I THINK IT'S
AROUND ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
>> I THINK IT'S CLOSE.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S PAST ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND LAST TIME I
CHECKED BUT I DID PASS ON IT SO
THIS IS 60 PERCENT THE LAST
TIME AND I DON'T KNOW IF I'VE
SEEN THE UPDATED NUMBERS FOR
THIS YEAR I THINK 60 PERCENT AM
I FOR ANN ARBOR IS AROUND THE
EIGHTY THOUSAND SOMEWHERE IN
EIGHTY THOUSAND RANGE I THINK
BUT THE EMI IS ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND SO SIXTY
PERCENT WOULD BE AROUND EIGHTY
THOUSAND.
YEAH OK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR MR ALL
RIGHT IF THE PETITIONERS PLEASE
COME FORWARD SIGN IN STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD YOU WILL
HAVE FIVE MINUTES EVERYBODY MY
NAME IS RYAN TALBOT I'M THE
DEVELOPER ON THIS PROJECT.
JUST A QUICK INTRODUCTION FOR
THE PROJECT.
I'LL HAND IT OFF THE ARCHITECT
I'M A MICHIGAN NATIVE UVM ALUM
AND I SPECIALIZE IN URBAN
INFILL HOUSING.
SO EMPHASIS ON WALKABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY TRYING TO BE A
FUTURE FOCUSED AS WE CAN AND I
TEND TO FIND MYSELF WORKING ON
SITES THAT HAVE SOME CHALLENGES
ASSOCIATED WITH THEM.
SO I APPRECIATE YOUR TIME
TAKING A LOOK AT HOW THE
HARDSHIPS THAT WE'VE IDENTIFIED
DO IMPACT THE BUILDING SO HAND
OVER TO DAVID DAVID NIM
TUBMANBURG ARCHITECTS ON THE
INNER CITY STREET IN MICHIGAN
CRUISED THROUGH THESE KIND
OF QUICKLY AND WE CAN COME BACK
AND ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT
ANYBODY MIGHT HAVE.
THIS FIRST ONE IS THE EXHIBIT
SHOWING RELATIONSHIP TO
RESIDENTIAL ZONING HOW FAR AWAY
WE ARE WITH THIS SITE AND
SHOWING JASON PAD'S KIND
OF AROUND US.
WE ARE OVER THE 300 FOOT MAX.
WE ONLY MAKE REFERENCE TO THAT
AS THE RECENT ONE GUIDANCE'S
HAS OFFERED THAT WHEN YOU'RE
BEYOND THE THREE HUNDRED FOOT
MARK FROM A RESIDENTIAL ZONE
PIECE OF LAND IS COULD BE
ADVISED TO GO UP TO 120 FEET IN
HEIGHT SO WE CAN GO TO THE
NEXT.
>> THIS IS JUST SHOWING THE
PROJECT SITE AND ITS RELATION
TO THE TRANSITIONAL ZONE OF THE
D TO THE NEXT.
>> THIS IS A HEIGHT MAP JUST
SHOWING THE CONTEXT OF WHAT WE
HAVE KIND OF SURROUNDING US
RIGHT NOW.
WE'RE BOUNDED BY THE Y TO THE
WEST THAT'S SEVENTY TWO FEET SO
TWELVE FEET OVER THE HEIGHT
LIMIT OF THE OF THE FIRST THREE
CHARACTER OVER AND GO TO THE
NEXT.
THESE ARE TWO DIAGRAMS THAT I
THINK MIGHT BE BETTER EXPLAINED
IN THE TWO TO PLAN VIEWS THAT
WE SENT OVER YESTERDAY JOHN IF
YOU WOULDN'T MIND JUMPING OVER
TO THAT
.
YEAH SO THIS FIRST ONE THIS IS
WHAT'S ALLOWED BY WRIGHT WITH
EIGHTY PERCENT LOT COVERAGE ON
THE SITE.
THE PROBLEMS WITH THIS IS THAT
IT WOULD BE BUILT IN THE
FLOODPLAIN AREA.
IT WOULD BE BUILT WITHIN A
SEVEN FOOT OFFSET FROM THE
PROPERTY LINE THAT'S ABUTTING
THE ELEVATED RAIL LINE AND IT
WOULD BE BUILT ABUTTING THE
ALMENDRAL BUILDING FOR THE FULL
SEVEN STORIES OF HEIGHT AS WE
SAW IN THE PICTURES ABOUT THE
SITE, THE BUILDING DOES HAVE
WINDOWS ON THE NORTH SIDE.
I ONLY REFERENCE THAT BECAUSE
WHILE WE ARE ASKING FOR A
VARIANCE TO THE HEIGHT OF THE
CHARACTER OVERLAY THAT
CHARACTER AURALLY DISTRICT ALSO
ASKS US TO RESPECT BUILDINGS
OF SIGNIFICANCE AND WHILE THE
BUILDING'S NOT A BUILDING
IDENTIFIED OR PROTECTED BY ANY
HISTORIC DESIGNATIONS, IT WAS
NOTED IN NINETEEN NINETY FOUR
SURVEY AS A BUILDING THAT
EPITOMIZED KIND OF INDUSTRIAL
ARCHITECTURE OF THE TIME AND IT
DOES HAVE THOSE WINDOWS ON THE
NORTH SIDE.
IT DOES HAVE DAYLIGHT COMING IN
THOSE WINDOWS SO THIS FOOTPRINT
DOESN'T NECESSARILY WORK WHEN
WE TALK ABOUT BUILDING
RESILIENCY BECAUSE IT'S
INTENSIFYING A USE IN THE
FLOODPLAIN AND FOR LONG TERM
VIABILITY HAVING THE ELEVATED
RAILROAD BERM WHICH IS ABOUT
FIFTEEN FEET ABOVE THE GRADE
WHERE IT'S AT AND THEN
ADDITIONALLY THE TRAIN THAT
COMES BY WILL BE AT ANOTHER TEN
TO TWELVE FEET OF HEIGHT
RUNNING ALONG THAT.
SO THERE'S ABOUT TWENTY TWO
FEET OF BOUNDARY WHEN WE
CONSIDER THAT ALONG THAT
WESTERLY SIDE IT ALSO
INTERNALIZES THE OPEN SPACE
WHICH THERE IS GUIDANCE IN SOME
CITY DOCUMENTS TO DIRECT TO
OPEN SPACE TO BE ADJACENT TO
PUBLIC WAYS WHERE POSSIBLE.
SO I'M GOING TO GO TO THE NEXT
SLIDE.
SO THIS SHOWS THE BUILDING FOR
THE FOOTPRINT THAT WE HAVE
PROPOSED.
THAT BUILDING FOOTPRINT IS AT
THE GRADE LEVEL OF FIRST STREET
AND BELOW THERE'S ABOUT FIFTEEN
FEET OF FALL AS WE MOVE FROM
EAST TO WEST ON THE SITE.
SO THIS FOOTPRINT WON'T BE
VISIBLE IF YOU'RE STANDING ON
FIRST STREET THIS FOOTPRINT IS
YOU CAN'T SEE THIS FOOTPRINT
BECAUSE IT'S ALL BELOW GRADE
ALL ALONG THAT THAT FIRST
STREET BOUNDARY, THE WESTERLEY
BOUNDARY OF THIS IS KIND
OF WHERE WE SET THE EDGE OF THE
BUILDING DEFINING WHAT WE
THOUGHT WAS A REASONABLE SET
BACK FROM THE ELEVATED RAIL
LINE AND TO AVOID BEING IN THE
BULK THE FLOODPLAIN.
IT ALSO LETS US REPURPOSE SOME
THAT EXISTING BUILDING BY
REMOVING THE ROOF TO MAKE THAT
OPEN ACTIVE GREEN SPACE OPEN
SPACE ADJACENT TO THE PUBLIC
WAY WITHOUT NECESSARILY HAVING
TO DISTURB THE EXISTING
RETAINING WALL THAT IS KIND
OF BUILT INTO PART OF THE
EMBANKMENT WILL REINFORCE THAT
AS REQUIRED.
WE'LL HAVE TO HAVE STRUCTURAL
ENGINEERING DO THAT EVALUATION
AS WE GO BUT TRYING TO HAVE AS
LATE OF A TOUCH OVER THERE AS
POSSIBLE.
THE PROBLEM WITH THIS FOOTPRINT
IS THAT IF WE WERE TO BUILD
THIS THE FULL SEVEN STOREYS TO
MAX OUT WHAT WE COULD BUILD
WHEN WE ARE USING THE FULL
PERIMETER OF THE SITE, WE WOULD
END UP WITH A BUILDING THAT
THAT ISN'T NECESSARILY A
HEALTHY, RESILIENT WAY TO BUILD
BECAUSE WE CAN'T PUT OPENINGS
ALONG THE PROPERTY LINE THAT
ARE INTERIOR TO THE TO THE
PARCEL THAT WOULD AFFECT THE
INTERIOR BUILDING BECAUSE IT
WOULD TAKE AWAY THEIR WINDOWS
AND THEIR ACCESS TO DAYLIGHT
AND IT WOULD MEAN WE JUST DON'T
NECESSARILY HAVE A LONG TERM
FUNCTIONAL SPACE BY DOING THAT.
SO THAT LED TO THE NEXT SLIDE
WHICH SHOWS THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE BUILDING, THE TYPICAL
FOOTPRINT OF THE BUILDING AS IT
RISES ABOVE THAT FIRST LEVEL
GRADE THE MAGENTA ER SHADED
AREA IS THE SET BACK WE WERE
PROPOSING THAT'S FAR ENOUGH
BACK FROM THE OLD BUILDING
BUILDING DID NOT REQUIRE ANY
ADDITIONAL WORK TO BE DONE ON
THEIR BUILDING TO PROTECT IT
FROM FIRE.
BACK WHEN THOSE BUILDINGS WERE
BUILT WE DIDN'T HAVE SO SUCH
ROBUST FIRE CODE AND NOW THEY
WANT ABOUT A 30 FOOT SETBACK
BETWEEN BUILDINGS TO HAVE
OPENINGS IN THE WALL PERIOD.
SO WE IDENTIFIED THIS AMOUNT
OF SETBACK AND THAT'S THE
BUILDING THAT RISES ABOVE THAT
STREET GRADE LEVEL AS WHAT
WOULD BE A REASONABLE ASK TO TO
DEVELOP A FOOTPRINT THAT WORKED
FOR RESIDENTIAL WAS A HEALTHY
WAY TO BUILD AND HAD ACCESS TO
DAYLIGHT THAT WASN'T GOING TO
BE ENCUMBERED BY ANY FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT.
IT MIGHT TAKE PLACE ON THE
ADJACENT PARCEL AND RESPECTED
THE INTERIOR BUILDING AND
REASONABLY SET BACK FROM THE
TRAIN TRACK AND
CREATED AVOIDANCE OF THE
FLOODPLAIN.
>> LASTLY, IT'S NOT SHOWN IN
THIS IS YOU KNOW, AS I NOTED
EARLIER, THE TRAIN TRACKS ARE
ABOUT 15 FEET.
A TRAIN CAN BE SOMEWHERE IN THE
RANGE OF TEN TO TWELVE FEET.
SO WE TOOK THE PROGRAM AREA ON
THE NORTH SOUTH LEG AND JUST
RAISED THAT UP AGAIN SO THAT
WHEN
THE TRAIN GOES BY WHICH I
MEAN I'VE BEEN STUCK ON THAT
TRAIN FOR TEN MINUTES BEFORE
COMING INTO TOWN YOU DON'T NEED
PEOPLE LIVING IN A BUILDING
WHERE WHERE THAT IS THE CASE
AND THEY'RE SITTING THERE FOR
TEN MINUTES WITH A LOUD TRAIN
GOING BY THEIR SPACE.
SO WE'VE ELEVATED THAT UP AND
THAT PUSHED THAT UP ANOTHER TEN
FEET WHEN WE DID THAT JUST TO
AVOID THAT IN THE LONG TERM I'M
GOOD.
THAT'S GREAT RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER
PETTY.
YEAH, FOR ME WE HAVE IT'S
PROBABLY ABOUT FIFTY PERCENT I
THINK I DON'T KNOW THE NUMBER I
DON'T KNOW THE EXACT NUMBER
OF TOP OF MY HEAD WOULD BE A
LITTLE LESS THAN 50 PERCENT.
>> WE HAVE ONE HUNDRED HUNDRED
UNITS OR PARKING SPACES AND TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY UNITS SO A
LITTLE LESS THAN 50 PERCENT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE IS ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION NOW IS YOUR
OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO.
IF YOU ARE HERE IN PERSON,
PLEASE COME FORWARD, SIGN IN
STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD
YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES.
>> I JUST IN HEREK I DON'T
REALLY ENJOY PUBLIC SPEAKING SO
I WROTE SOMETHING I AM GOING TO
EAT IT.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK TONIGHT.
MY NAME'S JUSTIN HEREK.
I'M ONE OF THE BUSINESS AND
PROPERTY OWNERS OF THE SITE
UNDER CONSIDERATION AND FOR
THIS DEVELOPMENT I'VE LIVED IN
ANN ARBOR FOR OVER TWENTY
YEARS.
I'VE STARTED MULTIPLE
BUSINESSES DOWNTOWN IN THE
SURROUNDING AREA.
I CARE DEEPLY FOR THE CITY ITS
SUCCESS, ITS GROWTH AND ITS
CHARACTER AND ARBOR'S MASTER
PLAN CALLS FOR MORE DENSITY
SUSTAINABILITY AND HOUSING
PORTABILITY.
OVER THE PAST DECADE,
UNIVERSITY CONSTRUCTION AND
LARGE SCALE STUDENT HOUSING
PROJECTS HAVE EXPLODED.
THE SKYLINE HAS CHANGED.
WE'VE WATCHED MASSIVE
UNIVERSITY AND STUDENT HOUSING
DEVELOPMENTS RISE ALL AROUND.
BUT HERE'S THE PROBLEM IN MY
OPINION WHILE STUDENT HOUSING
CONTINUES TO EXPAND HOUSING FOR
REGULAR PEOPLE TEACHERS,
RESTAURANT WORKERS EVERY DAY
AND ARBITRATES HAS LAGGED FAR
BEHIND.
AS A DOWNTOWN BUSINESS OWNER I
SEE THIS IMBALANCE EVERY DAY
STUDENTS IN THE UNIVERSITY ARE
VITAL TO THE COMMUNITY AND OUR
BUSINESSES BUT INCREASINGLY THE
BROADER POPULATION IS BEING
DWARFED AND PUSHED OUT
OF DOWNTOWN.
SO WHEN A PROJECT COMES ALONG
THAT HELPS REBALANCE THAT
EQUATION THAT ADDS RESIDENTS
WHO LIVE AND WORK YEAR ROUND I
BELIEVE THE ZEBA WITH ITS
AUTHORITY TO GRANT PARENTS
SHOULD EMBRACE IT
WHOLEHEARTEDLY.
THIS PROJECT ALIGNS PERFECTLY
WITH THE CITY'S STATED GOALS
INCREASING DOWNTOWN DENSITY,
PROMOTING WALKABILITY AND BIKE
ABILITY AND BALANCING
ENVIRONMENTAL AND AFFORDABILITY
OBJECTIVES.
YET IT'S BEING HELD BACK BY
WHAT AMOUNTS TO AN ARBITRARY
LINE DRAWN LONG AGO AN OVERLY
LIMITING THE HEIGHT BUILDINGS
CAN BE AS GO FROM ONE SIDE
OF THE STREET TO THE OTHER A
FAR MORE MEANINGFUL BOUNDARY
ONCE AGAIN IN MY OPINION WOULD
BE THE TRAIN TRACKS WHICH
NATURALLY DIVIDE DOWNTOWN FROM
THE WEST SIDE NEIGHBORHOODS AND
WOULD PERFECTLY ACCOMMODATE
THIS PROJECT.
IN ESSENCE THAT'S WHAT THE
VARIANCE IS ASKING FOR.
WE SHOULD BE ENCOURAGING
DEVELOPERS WHO WHO ALIGN WITH
OUR CITY'S GOALS NOT
DISCOURAGING THEM IN FAVOR
OF THOSE SIMPLY LOOKING TO CASH
IN ON THE NEXT ROUND OF STUDENT
HOUSING.
I ALSO WANT TO BRIEFLY ADDRESS
SOMETHING I'M SURE SOME OF YOU
ARE THINKING.
I'M SPEAKING PASSIONATELY
TONIGHT ABOUT SUPPORTING
PROJECTS THAT I BELIEVE MAKE
ANN ARBOR A BETTER CITY AND
IT'S FAIR TO WONDER WHETHER
THAT PASSION IS ROOTED IN
SELF-INTEREST OR GENUINE
CONCERN FOR THE CITY.
MY PARTNERS AND I ARE SMALL
LOCAL ENTREPRENEURS OPERATING
IN ONE OF THE TOUGHEST
INDUSTRIES THERE AS RESTAURANTS
AND BARS.
MOST DAYS ARE SPENT PUTTING OUT
FIRES, JUGGLING CHALLENGES AND
DOING EVERYTHING WE CAN TO JUST
KEEP OUR BUSINESSES OPERATING
ON SOLID FINANCIAL FOOTING,
HARDWORKING WHAT'S UP IF THIRTY
SECONDS THIRTY SECONDS HARD
WORK STRESSFUL LOTS OF ANXIETY
AND UNCERTAINTY.
THIS PROJECT REPRESENTS A RARE
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO REINVEST
IN OUR BUSINESSES IN THE
FUTURE.
WE'RE NOT LEAVING DOWNTOWN.
WE STILL OPERATE TWO OTHER
BUSINESSES HERE AND OTHERS
ACROSS TOWN AND ARE DEEPLY
ENGAGED IN MAKING ANN ARBOR A
VIBRANT AND ATTRACTIVE PLACE TO
LIVE AND WORK TO DENY THIS
REASONABLE VARIANCE WOULD SEND
THE WRONG MESSAGE THAT OUR
POLICIES SAY ONE THING BUT OUR
ACTIONS SAY ANOTHER THAT
BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE AND
PROCEDURE SUPERSEDE COMMON
SENSE PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR
GOALS.
SO I ASK YOU TODAY IF WE TRULY
BELIEVE IN OUR VISION AND
DENSITY AND AFFORDABILITY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
AND A VIBRANT DOWNTOWN THEN
LET'S MAKE DECISIONS THAT LIVE
UP TO THAT VISION.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO, I'M DAN GUNNING AND I'M
A RESIDENT.
I'D LIKE TO SAY A FEW WORDS IN
SUPPORT OF THE RULE OF LAW.
ANN ARBOR IS A VERY NICE PLACE
TO LIVE BECAUSE WE HAVE
COMMUNITY STANDARDS.
WE'VE AGREED UPON A SET
OF VALUES AS CITIZENS WE'VE
BENEFITED FROM INTELLIGENT
ZONING LAWS.
I'M HERE TO OPPOSE THE REQUEST
FOR THE VARIANCE FOR THIS THREE
FIFTEEN YEAR OLD PROJECT THE
PROPOSAL IS SOMETHING THAT IS
DRASTICALLY OUT OF LINE WITH
THE ESTHETIC.
IT'S A VERY FIFTY NINE FEET
ABOVE THE EXISTING STANDARDS
ARE SHOULD NOT BE SET ASIDE FOR
WHAT I CONSIDER IN AN ILL
CONCEIVED PROJECT IN TERMS
OF AFFORDABILITY I THINK
RESTAURANT WORKERS AND LOCAL
ARTISTS AND MUSICIANS CAN'T
AFFORD A THOUSAND DOLLARS DON'T
MAKE EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS AND
UP FOR APARTMENTS SO THEY MAY
HAVE RESEARCHED THE WORK
REQUIREMENTS WILL GET THEM
QUALIFIED FOR AN EXCEPTION.
BUT I THINK THERE ARE SOME
OBSTACLES THAT I SEE AS SOMEONE
WHO SPENDS TIME IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD ON A WEEKLY BASIS
I BELIEVE THERE'S A PROPOSED
DRIVEWAY ON S FIRST STREET AND
TRAFFIC ON THE 400 BLOCK
OF SELL FIRST IS FREQUENTLY
DIFFICULT TO NEGOTIATE BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE BACKED UP TRYING TO
GET INTO THE PARKING LOT ACROSS
THE STREET FROM THIS PROJECT.
I'M AFRAID THAT THIS MANY
RESIDENTIAL UNITS THAT LOCATION
MIGHT PUT NEGATIVE PRESSURE ON
THE DELANO'S CENTER WHICH IS IN
PART PERFORMING A VERY
IMPORTANT FUNCTION AND AFFECTS
ALL OF OUR QUALITY OF LIFE TO
PROVIDE THOSE SERVICES ALTHOUGH
IT IS SORT OF UNRULY LOOKING
FROM FROM THE STREET FROM THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE STREET, THE
PEOPLE HANGING OUT THERE AND
STUFF ALSO THAT'S AN AWFUL LOT
OF APARTMENTS THAT ARE REALLY
CLOSE TO THE SOUTHBOUND
RAILROAD TRACKS WHICH BLOW
THEIR HORN QUITE LOUD WHEN
THEY'RE CROSSING AND THEY HAVE
TO EVERY EVERY EVENING AS
THEY'RE GOING SOUTH TRYING TO
CROSS LIBERTY AND FIRST STREET
.
I KNOW THE ATRIUM BUILDING IS
FOR SALE BUT THE I THINK THAT'S
A BIT OF AN OVERREACH BECAUSE
THE OTHER THE BUILDING THAT
HOUSES LIVE AND THE LAST WORD
IS NOT FOR SALE.
SO I THINK THEY'RE ANTICIPATING
MAKING ENOUGH MONEY ON THIS
DEAL TO BE ABLE TO OFFER US
BUSINESSES THIRTY SECONDS MORE
THAN YOU KNOW, MORE THAN THE
PROPERTY IS WORTH TO MAKE THIS
PROJECT GO FORWARD AND IT'S
ALSO GOING TO FORCE OUT A
TENANT WHO IS IN WHO'S RENTING
SPACE WITH A SUCCESSFUL TRYING
TO JUST DEVELOP A SUCCESSFUL
SOUTH KOREAN RESTAURANT AND HIS
JUST GOING TO BE KICKED OUT
OF HIS OUT OF HIS SPACE THEIR
OWN SELF FIRST STREET.
SO THAT'S THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.
>> THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE HERE THAT
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION?
UH, IF THERE'S ANYONE REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE USE THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON.
THERE ARE NO CAMERAS.
THANK YOU WITH THAT THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND OH NO
IT'S NOT.
I WILL KNOW QUICKLY THAT WE DID
RECEIVE A FEW LETTERS ON THIS
PROJECT.
WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
FROM RISHI NARAYAN.
I'M THE OWNER OF THE BUILDING
AT ONE OR TWO SOUTH VERSTRAETE
WE HAVE A LETTER OF SUPPORT
THAT'S ALSO COMING FROM DEVIN
KILPATRICK.
WE HAVE A LETTER OF APPOSITION
IN FROM KITTY CON AT FIVE
FIFTEEN KRAUZE STREET AND THEN
WE HAVE A LETTER FROM JUSTIN
HEREK IN SUPPORT WITH THAT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED AND
NOW WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
BUT
THEY WANT ONE MORE QUESTION I
GUESS I COULD HAVE ASKED US,
SAID THE DEVELOPER.
BUT I'LL ASK IT OF OUR PLANNING
STAFF WAS PUDI CONSIDERED FOR
THIS BECAUSE I NOTICED THAT ON
THE ZONING MAP THERE WERE A
NUMBER OF PARCELS RIGHT IN THIS
AREA THAT WERE OUR PD.
>> YEAH, THERE ARE A FEW PD
ADJACENT AND JUST JUST A LITTLE
BIT OF CONTEXT I THINK THIS
AREA WAS LIKE RESOLED OUR
DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS WERE
KIND OF RE ORGANIZED RESOUND
AROUND 2009 I BELIEVE STACK DID
PRESENT
VARIOUS OPTIONS
POSSIBILITY OF CBA OR OF A
VARIANCE OR CLASS POSSIBILITY
AND POSSIBILITY OF A REZONING
LIKELY PUTI STUFF THAT PRESENT
VARIOUS POSSIBILITIES TO
POTENTIALLY ACHIEVE THIS
DEVELOPMENT GOAL.
THANK YOU.
SORRY TO DEEP INTO SORRY I'M
TRYING TO SORT THROUGH ALL
THESE PAGES IN DETAIL AND I
WANT TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
A FEW THINGS SO THE VARIANCE
THEY'RE SEEKING IS FOUR FIFTY
NINE FEET 11 INCHES.
CAN STAFF CLARIFY WHERE THE
BOAT ELECTRIFICATION AND THE
AFFORDABILITY ADDRESS COMES
INTO THE THIRTY PERCENT?
IS THIS ON TOP OF THE THIRTY
PERCENT THEY WOULD BE ALLOWED
IF THEY DID THAT?
>> YES.
YES.
OK, AND THEN WITH RESPECT TO
THE PORTION OF THE FLOODPLAIN
AND I ALWAYS GET THE
TERMINOLOGY MIXED UP BUT THE
PORTION OF THE FLOODPLAIN
THEY'RE TRYING TO AVOID THAT'S
FLOOD FRINGE.
RIGHT.
SO IT IS THEY ARE ALL ELEVEN
POINT FOUR PERCENT ROUGHLY
OF THE SITE IS FLOODWAY FRENCH
OAK WHICH THEY ARE ALLOWED TO
BUILD ON.
UH, DIRECTIVE'S DISCOURAGE.
BUT THERE ARE POSSIBILITIES FOR
DEVELOPMENT IS BY THE WAY OR
THE MORE RESTRICTIVE FLOODWAY
THAT DOESN'T ALLOW MORE USES.
>> OK, THANKS DAVE I I ACTUALLY
AGREE THAT WE ARE LOOKING FOR
HIGHER DENSITY IN THIS AREA AND
I THINK THE CURRENT REGULATION
SO WE EXPANDED INCLUDING THE V
TO ZONING DISTRICT IN THE FIRST
STREET OVERLAY JUST TO ALLOW
FOR INCREASED DENSITY.
I'M OPPOSED TO THIS.
I JUST GOT BACK FROM PARIS I'LL
TELL YOU IN BUILDINGS THERE ARE
FIVE OR SIX STORIES BY AND
LARGE WITHIN THE MAIN DOWNTOWN
AREA.
YEAH, THERE'S HIGHER DENSITY
BECAUSE THERE'S NOT A TWO
STOREY BUILDING NEXT TO THESE
FIVE AND SIX STOREY BUILDINGS
ARE SOLID AND IT'S QUITE A
LIVABLE CITY IN TERMS
OF PEDESTRIAN ACCESS.
>> AND I'VE GOT NUMEROUS PHOTOS
ON MY PHONE THAT I JUST BROUGHT
BACK TODAY.
RIGHT NOW IT'S MIDNIGHT PARIS
TIME OR PAST.
>> I'M OPPOSED TO THIS.
IT'S YOU'RE ASKING FOR A
HUNDRED THIRTY EIGHT FEET AND
I'M LOOKING AT RIGHT NOW ON THE
SCREEN IN EXCESS OF EVERYTHING
ON THE SCREEN EXCEPT FOR THE
POTENTIAL THAT COULD BE BUILT
ACROSS THE STREET BY RIGHT.
AND I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S EVER
GOING TO HAPPEN BUT IT'S I JUST
SEE THIS IS TRENDING TOO FAR
AND WITH THE CURRENT BONUSES
THAT YOU COULD GET WITH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING ALTHOUGH I
PREFER TO SEE AFFORDABILITY AT
A 30 PERCENT AM I WHICH REALLY
ADDRESSES THE SERVICE SECTOR
EMPLOYEES THAT ARE LOOKING FOR
HOUSING TO WORK IN THE
RESTAURANTS, THE BUILDERS, THE
OWNERS, THE BUSINESS OWNERS ARE
ADVOCATING THAT WE NEED MORE
HOUSING FOR THEM.
THE EIGHTY THOUSAND DOLLARS YOU
KNOW, I DON'T KNOW A LOT
OF RESTAURANT EMPLOYEES MAKE A
KIND OF INCOME SO I'M OPPOSED
TO THIS.
>> I THINK A SUBSTANTIAL
INCREASE IN DENSITY COULD
HAPPEN WITH WHAT'S CURRENTLY
AVAILABLE AND TO GO SIXTY FEET
ON TOP OF THE BONUS THAT YOU
COULD GET FOR THE HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY OR THE
SUSTAINABILITY BONUSES IS VERY
UNREASONABLE.
AND AS I SAID, LOOK AT WHAT'S
THERE NOW AND THIS EXCEEDS ALL
OF IT.
>> I WILL OPPOSE CHRISTINA.
I HAD A QUESTION BACK TO STAFF
AND I PROBABLY HAVE ASKED THIS
EARLIER CAN YOU TALK THROUGH
THE PROCESS?
IT HAS OCCURRED TO DATE WITH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
PLANNING COMMISSION?
OH YEAH.
OH, I'M NOT TALKING TO CAN YOU
JUST GO THROUGH THE PROCESS
THAT'S BEEN COMPLETED TODAY
WITH GOING THROUGH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION PUBLIC COMMENT.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE'S BEEN
SOME INTERFACE WITH PUBLIC
COMMENT AND PRESENTATION AND
HOW THAT HAS SHAPED THE
BUILDING AND THE PROJECT THAT
WE SEE TODAY AND THE
APPLICATION.
>> YEAH, SO THERE'S BEEN NO
NOTHING HAS BEEN BROAD LIKE THE
ONLY DEVELOPMENT TYPE THAT
WOULD GO TO PLANNING COMMISSION
DIRECTLY AT THE BEGINNING WOULD
BE A PUDI FOR WHAT WE CALL PRE
PUDI CONFERENCE.
SO THIS CASE THEY'VE APPLIED AS
I WRITE DEVELOPMENT WITH YOU
KNOW, THE KNOWLEDGE THAT THEY
WOULD NEED THIS VARIANCE TO BE
ABLE TO CONSTRUCT AS
DEMONSTRATED IN THEIR SITE
PLAN.
SO WHEN THIS HAPPENS AT APPLIED
WE WERE RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF A PROCESS OF REWORKING OUR
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
GUIDELINES SO I BELIEVE THEY
COMPLETED UNDER OUR OLD
GUIDELINES WHICH WOULD REQUIRE
SENDING A POSTCARD OUT AND
HOLDING A COMMUNITY MEETING AND
I BELIEVE THAT OCCURRED WITHIN
THE LAST MONTH OR SO.
THEY DID HAVE A COMMUNITY
MEETING BUT THAT'S KIND OF BEEN
THE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
REQUIREMENTS UP TO THIS POINT
AND THEN JUST WORKING WITH
STAFF AND THEY WERE WORKING
TOWARDS PREPARING THEIR
APPLICATION MATERIALS FOR THIS
SITE PLAN TO DO SO.
THIS IS ONE OF THOSE WHERE IT'S
IT'S A LITTLE HARD FOR ME
BECAUSE SORT OF WHAT I WOULD
PREFER PERSONALLY AND VERSUS
WHAT I THINK ARE SORT OF RULES
AND REGULATIONS WHICH WE DO
HAVE THINGS THAT WE'RE SUPPOSED
TO FOLLOW WHETHER I LIKE THIS
BUILDING, WHETHER I YOU KNOW,
THINK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO
HAVE APARTMENTS AT THIS LEVEL
HERE WE DO HAVE HAVE CRITERIA
THAT WE NEED TO FOLLOW AND ONE
OF THEM IS THE VARIANCE SHALL
BE A MINIMUM VARIANCE THAT WILL
MAKE POSSIBLE A REASONABLE USE
OF THE LAND OR STRUCTURE AND I
THINK ONE OF THE I SAID, YOU
KNOW, ZONING IS SORT OF RANDOM
LINES AND YES, IT IS KIND
OF RANDOM LINES BUT IT'S RANDOM
LINES THAT MEAN A LOT AND THAT
PEOPLE FOLLOW AND MAKE
DECISIONS ON AND UNTIL WE
CHANGE THOSE WE IT FEELS WEIRD
TO JUST SORT OF WE CAN'T JUST
PICK AND CHOOSE THAT WE
ACTUALLY HAVE CRITERIA THAT WE
NEED TO FOLLOW.
SO THIS ONE TO ME FEELS LIKE
THAT THAT MINIMUM VARIANCE IS
THAT THIS IS NOT A MINIMUM
VARIANCE.
THIS IS A A DIFFERENT BUILDING
TYPE THAT WE'RE TRYING TO PUT
INTO AN EXISTING ZONING
DISTRICT.
AND SO IT JUST FEELS LIKE IT
DOESN'T MEET OUR CRITERIA
WHETHER WHETHER I PERSONALLY
LIKE THE BUILDING OR THEY USE
IT, IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE IT
MEETS OUR CRITERIA.
>> I I WILL ECHO THOSE
COMMENTS.
I THINK JULIE SAID IT VERY
WELL.
THIS FEELS LIKE A A D ONE OR A
TC ONE BUILDING THAT YOU'RE
TRYING TO FIT ON A D TO SITE
AND MAYBE A SMALLER HIGH
VARIANCE WOULD BE SOMETHING
THAT THAT MIGHT MEET MORE
OF THE MINIMUM MINIMUM
NECESSARY BUT ASKING TO DOUBLE
THE HEIGHT OF THE BUILDING OVER
LIKE WHAT'S WHAT'S ALLOWED BY
CODE IS IS A TOUGH IT'S A TOUGH
SELL FOR ME.
UM I RECOGNIZE THAT IT GETS
AWKWARD WHEN YOU'RE THE THE
PROPERTY THAT'S ON THE LINE.
RIGHT.
LIKE EVERYBODY ACROSS THE
STREET FROM YOU IS IS BIGGER
AND TALLER.
THEY'RE HELD TO A DIFFERENT
STANDARD.
BUT THOSE LINES EXIST
EVERYWHERE ALL OVER THE CITY.
THERE'S ALWAYS SOMEBODY ACROSS
THE STREET FROM SOMETHING
DIFFERENT AND YOU HAVE TO GO
BUY WHAT APPLIES TO YOUR SITE.
SO I JUST DON'T THINK IT MEETS
THE STANDARD FOR VARIANCE IN MY
OPINION.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION WE'RE
READY FOR A MOTION.
I'D MAKE A MOTION.
>> I THINK WE'RE READY.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZIBA TWENTY
FIVE ZERO ZERO TWO TWO THREE
ONE THREE ELEVEN THREE FIFTEEN
THREE SEVENTEEN THREE NINETEEN
HERE STREET AND ONE OR TWO 106
S FIRST STREET IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL THE ZEBA ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
A VARIANCE OF FIFTY NINE FEET
11 INCHES FOR A TOTAL PROPOSED
BUILDING HEIGHT OF 137 FEET 11
INCHES INCLUDING MECHANICAL
SCREENING TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH SIX DOWNTOWN
CHARACTER OVERLAY ZONING
DISTRICTS BUILDING MACING
STANDARDS ALLOWS FOR A MAXIMUM
BUILDING HEIGHT OF SIXTY FEET
IN THE D TO FIRST STREET
CHARACTER OVERLAY DISTRICT.
THE PROPOSED PROJECT HAS
FURTHER IDENTIFIED AS ESP
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
FOUR IN THE MOTION.
THANK YOU DAVID.
WE HAVE SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM
GENE DERMO NO JULY NO DATE HAVE
ALREADY KNOW CHRISTINA YES
PATTY NO DREW YES.
I ALSO KNOW THE REQUEST IS
DENIED.
MOVING ON WE HAVE POSTPONED
PETITIONS ZIBA TWENTY ZERO ZERO
TO FOUR TO THE DECEMBER MEETING
SO WE ARE AT ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
DASH ZERO ZERO TWO THREE NINE
TWO FOUR WOODLAWN AVENUE JOHN
DARRAN MILMAN PROPERTY OWNER IS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE FOUR
HUNDRED SQUARE FEET FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH TO
TWO FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING
DISTRICT DIMENSION'S IF GRANTED
THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW THE
CONSTRUCTION OF A DUPLEX TO AN
EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCE.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS FOUR
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET AND AREA.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED OUT TO A
TWO FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
AND REQUIRES A MINIMUM LOT AREA
OF FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE SOUTH SIDE OF WOODLAND
AVENUE WEST PACKERS' STREET IN
THE LOWER BERN'S PARK
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE HOME WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
NINETEEN FIFTY AND IS
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY TWO SQUARE
FEET IN SIZE, ACCORDING TO THE
SURVEY THAT WAS SUBMITTED WITH
THE APPLICANT.
THE CURRENT LOT SIZE IS FOUR
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET IN AREA THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING TO CONSTRUCT A THREE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY THREE SQUARE
FOOT DORMER ADDITION THAT WILL
ALLOW THE CONVERSION OF THE
EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY HOME TO
A DUPLEX.
THE STRUCTURE IS CURRENTLY A
FOUR BEDROOM RESIDENCE IF THE
LOT AREA VARIANCE IS APPROVED
THE HOME WILL CONVERT TO A
DUPLEX WITH BOTH UNITS
CONTAINING FOUR BEDROOMS.
THE FIRST FLOOR UNIT WILL
EXPAND INTO THE BASEMENT WITH
TWO BEDROOMS ON EACH LEVEL.
THE SECOND FLOOR UNIT WILL
CONTAIN FOUR BEDROOMS AND THE
KITCHEN AND LIVING ROOM WILL BE
ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
AND I'VE ALSO INCLUDED THE
DISTRICT TABLE FOR THE TWO
FAMILY RESIDENCES AND YOU CAN
SEE THE ARCHWAY ON YOUR STAFF
REPORT SHOWS THE MINIMUM LOT
AREA IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE MONITORS
YOU'LL SEE THE FIRST SLIDE IS
THE ZONING MAP AND THE SUBJECT
PROPERTIES HIGHLIGHTED AT THE
CENTER OF YOUR SCREEN AND YOU
SEE SURROUNDING PROPERTIES THIS
WHOLE AREA THIS IT'S BOULDIN IS
ZONED ARCHWAY NEXT SCREEN IS
THE AREA ARE MAP SHOWING THE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES AND
EXISTING CONDITIONS.
IN THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED
IN AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY WITH THE EXISTING
RESIDENTS.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT AND YOU SEE THAT IT'S
RIGHT THERE IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN FOUR THOUSAND
SIX SQUARE FEET AND AREA PER
THE SURVEYOR.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE EXISTING
FLOOR PLANS AND NEW PROPOSED
FLOOR PLANS.
YOU SEE ON THE LEFT HAND CORNER
YOU SEE THE EXISTING BASEMENT
FLOOR PLAN YOU SEE ON THE FAR
RIGHT CORNER YOU SEE A NEWLY
PROPOSED BASEMENT FLOOR PLAN.
LIKE I SAID, IT'S GOING TO HAVE
THE TWO BEDROOMS IN THE
BASEMENT AND THEN ON THE BOTTOM
OF YOUR SCREEN YOU SEE THE
EXISTING FIRST FLOOR AND THEN
THE PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR.
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
SECOND FLOOR AND THEN THE
PROPOSED SECOND FLOOR PLAN
WOULD BE SECOND UNIT, THEN THE
DUPLEX UPSTAIRS AND THE BOTTOM
OF THE SCREEN SHOWS EXISTING
ROOF PLANS AND NEWLY PROPOSED
ROOF PLAN C YOU SEE A LITTLE
BIT OF VARIATION WITH THAT NEW
DORMER EDITION AND A CENTER
BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN AS OPPOSED
TO THE LEFT EXISTING THESE ARE
THE ELEVATIONS THAT ARE ON THE
TOP THE EXISTING FRONT
ELEVATION OF EXISTING RIGHT
SIDE AND THEN THE NEW FRONT AND
THE NEW RIGHT SIDE AND THEN THE
NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE EXISTING
REAR ELEVATION AND YOU SEE THE
PROPOSED REAR ELEVATION BELOW
IT AND THEN THE EXISTING LEFT
SIDE ELEVATION AND THEN THE
NEWLY PROPOSED LEFT SIDE YOU
REALLY SEE THIS NEW DORMER
EDITION AND THAT ELEVATION.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK OF MY INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE FRONT OF THE HOME,
THE EXISTING SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING.
NEXT SLIDE IS LOOKING TO THE
WEST SIDE OF THE HOME, THE HOME
ON THE RIGHT IS THE ADJOINING
PROPERTY OR THE ADJACENT
PROPERTY.
NEXT SLIDE IS LOOKING DIRECTLY
DOWN THE EAST SIDE OF THE LOT
RIGHT DOWN THE DRIVEWAY AND THE
EXISTING DETACHED GARAGE IN THE
BACKYARD.
THIS IS A PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY, THE FENCED IN REAR
REARGUARD AREA.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE REAR
ELEVATION OF THE EXISTING AND
THIS IS A SLIDE THAT WAS
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT.
HE CAN SPEAK ON IT MORE FOR
SOME REASON THAT DIDN'T COME
THROUGH.
YOU'VE GOT A HANDOUT THAT SHOWS
THAT BETTER.
IT SHOWS THAT EVERYONE'S GOT A
HANDOUT.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PASSELL IS
IN BLUE AND THEN ALL THE RED
HIGHLIGHTED PARCELS ARE
SURROUNDING PROPERTIES IN THE
AREA THAT ARE EXISTING
DUPLEXES.
BUT I'LL LET THE APPLICANT
COMMENT FURTHER ON THAT.
THAT IS THE END OF THE STAFF'S
PRESENTATION AND I CAN TAKE ANY
QUESTIONS THAT YOU HAVE AT THIS
TIME.
>> THANK QUESTIONS FOR JOHN DOE
I'M SORRY HERE HE SHOWED THIS
BUT THE THE PROPERTIES IN THIS
AREA ARE THEY ALL THE SIMILARLY
SMALLER SIZE THAN THE MINIMUM
OF FIVE THOUSAND OR ARE YOU
FOUR THOUSAND?
LET ME GO BACK TO THAT SCREEN
THAT KIND OF COOL THAT MAYBE
THAT WHOLE AREA IS ZONED OUT TO
THIS WHOLE BOLDON AREA.
OK, YOU SEE THE ARCHWAY RIGHT
THERE AND THEN YOU CAN SEE THAT
MANY OF THESE PROPERTIES SOME
OF THEM MEET LIKE I'M SURE THIS
ONE RIGHT HERE TO MEET THAT ONE
DOES YOU KNOW, IT'S HARD TO GO
THROUGH EVERY SINGLE ONE BUT
THERE ARE QUITE A FEW
NONCONFORMING PROPERTIES IN THE
AREA I WOULD SAY SO
NONCONFORMING NO MATTER WHAT
YOU PUT ON IT IF YOU PUT A
SINGLE FAMILY TO NEW SINGLE
FAMILY DETACHED HOME SO YOU
KNOW SO BY RIGHT YOU CAN
CONSTRUCT A SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENCE.
OK, IT'S WHEN YOU GO TO THE
SECOND FAMILY, THE SECOND UNIT
IT HAS TO MEET OK DISTRICT
REQUIREMENTS OF FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET OK DO YOU HOW MANY
EXISTING DUPLEXES ARE ACTUALLY
LIKE HERE.
I DO NOT BUT THEN THAT HANDOUT
YOU HAVE YOU GOT YOU THOUGH I
THINK THERE ARE PROBABLY A HALF
A DOZEN OR SO THAT ARE
HIGHLIGHTED AND THE RED ONE
SPEAK TO IT WHEN I THANK YOU.
>> THANKS JOHN.
AS FAR AS YOU KNOW THIS IS ONLY
NONCONFORMING FOR THE MINIMUM
AREA LIKE IT WOULD STILL MEET
THE OTHER SET BACK ANOTHER
REQUIREMENTS OF THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, DAVID, YOU HAVE A QUESTION
THAT'S ACTUALLY EXACTLY A
QUESTION I WAS GOING TO ASK.
THEY'RE NOT ASKING FOR ANY JUST
FOR SETBACKS.
>> NO.
SO IT WAS YOU CAN SEE THE LOT
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DISTRICT
REQUIRED TO BE FORTY FEET WIDE
AND THE SURVEY SHOWS THAT IT'S
FORTY FEET WIDE AND YOU CAN SEE
THE HIGHLIGHTED OR THE EXISTING
SETBACKS, THE SETBACKS FOR THE
DISTRICT ARE GOING TO THEY MEET
THE SETBACKS AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS, ROGER?
RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS PLEASE COME
FORWARD, SIGN IN STATE YOUR
NAME YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
>> GOOD EVENING ONCE AGAIN FOR
THE RECORD MY NAME IS DARREN
MELMAN AND I AM THE PROPERTY
OWNER ALONG WITH MY WIFE
OF NINE TO FOUR WOODLAWN AS
JOHN DESCRIBED, THIS HOME IS
LOCATED IN THE R TO A TWO
FAMILY ZONING DISTRICT AND IS
SURROUNDED BY MANY DUPLEX HOMES
RIGHT NOW.
I'LL SPEAK TO THE SLIDE DIDN'T
INDICATE DO YOU HAVE A HANDOUT
PERHAPS THAT SHOWS SOME
COLORATION ON IT.
OUR PROPERTY IS NINE TO FOUR IN
BLUE IN RED.
THESE DON'T THIS ISN'T A
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF THE
DUPLEXES THERE ACTUALLY FAR,
FAR MORE THAN THAT IN THIS
WITHIN THIS HOUR TO A GROUPING
.
THESE ARE SIMPLY THE OTHER
DUPLEXES THAT ARE ALSO ON LOTS
THAT ARE LESS THAN THE FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
THAT'S WHY THE MAP SHOULD BE
LABELED AS UNDERSIZED ARE TO A
DUPLEX PROPERTIES IF THAT MAKES
SENSE.
SO IT'S AGAIN NOT A
COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF THE
DUPLEX PROPERTIES.
THERE'S ACTUALLY I DON'T KNOW
IF IT'S A MAJORITY OF THE
PROPERTY.
IT'S CERTAINLY PROPERTIES IN
THIS DISTRICT BUT THERE ARE
THERE ARE FAR MORE THAT BECAUSE
THERE ARE SOME LOTS IN THERE
THAT THAT MEET THE FIVE
THOUSAND AND OPERATORS'
DUPLEXES.
SO I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY
THAT AS YOU LOOK AT THAT, MAYBE
I'D LIKE TO SPECIFICALLY CALL
OUT THE PROPERTY AT NINE
FOURTEEN WOODLAWN ONLY BECAUSE
THAT'S A PROPERTY THAT OPERATES
AS THAT IS A DUPLEX AND THE
DIMENSIONS THAT LOT ARE
ACTUALLY IDENTICAL TO TO OUR
PROPERTY AS ARE MANY OF THE
SOUTH SIDE OF WOODLAWN.
THERE ARE THE ARE THE SAME
DIMENSIONS AS OUR LOT THE
PROPOSED SECOND FLOOR DORMER
EDITION AND THE WHOLE HOUSE
INTERIOR REMODEL IS ALL TO BE
DONE WITHIN THE EXISTING
FOOTPRINT OF THE HOME WITHOUT
IMPEDING FURTHER INTO ANY
OF THE EXISTING SETBACKS THE
PROPOSED REMODEL PROPERTY WILL
INCLUDE ALL NEW PLUMBING,
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL
SYSTEMS ALONG WITH UPGRADED
SAFETY AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
FEATURES.
THE PROPOSED HOME WILL FEATURE
HIGH END INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR
FINISHES AND WILL BE DESIGNED
TO FIT SEAMLESSLY WITHIN THE
EXISTING STREETSCAPE.
IN MY OPINION, THE REQUESTED
VARIANCE OF FOUR HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET IS A RELATIVELY SMALL
REQUEST AND
WILL CERTAINLY NOT
HAVE ANY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON ANY
OF THE NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
OWNERS.
WITH THAT I'LL CONCLUDE AND
RESPECT IT RESPECTFULLY ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT FOR MY VARIANCE
REQUEST AND I'M FREE TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS IF YOU HAVE ANY.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER.
YES, I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE I
HEARD YOU CORRECTLY.
YOU'RE NOT CHANGING THE
FOOTPRINT AT ALL.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
WE'RE NOT CHANGING THE IT'S
ONLY A SECOND FLOOR DORMER
EDITION ON THE FRONT THE HOME
CURRENTLY HAS A DORMER ON THE
BACK SO IT'S ESSENTIALLY WHAT
THEY CALL LIKE A ONE AND A HALF
STOREY CAPE COD STYLE IN FRONT
AND SO IT'LL JUST BE A TRUE TWO
STORY WHEN THE WHEN THE REMODEL
WAS COMPLETED.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, NOW'S YOUR
OPPORTUNITY.
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
SIGN AND STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD IF YOU ARE ACCESSING
THE MEETING REMOTELY, PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND BUTTON.
>> THERE ARE NO CALLERS.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
I DO NOT BELIEVE WE RECEIVED
ANY WRITTEN COMMUNICATION FOR
THIS PETITION.
>> SO WITH THE PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION.
SO I JUST A SIMPLE QUESTION,
JOHN.
WE'VE RECENTLY MODIFIED THINGS
WHERE PEOPLE CAN MAKE A
MODIFICATION TO A NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE IF THEY DON'T CHANGE
THE FOOTPRINT AND JUST DO IT
ADMINISTRATIVELY, CAN'T THEY?
>> YEAH, BUT IT HAS TO BE A FOR
A LOT OF CONFORMING LIMIT.
>> OK, THAT'S THE ONLY THE ONLY
NONCONFORMITY IS THE FOUR
HUNDRED FEET SQUARE FEET UH
DEFICIENCY.
OK THANK YOU.
WE CURRENTLY DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
STRUCTURE WE HAVE ENOUGH
OF WHAT WE HAVE STRUCTURE THEN
IF THIS WAS ALREADY A DUPLEX
THEY COULD MAKE ADJUSTMENTS TO
IT CORRECT.
JUST BY GOING ADMINISTRATIVELY
AND THE DEPENDING ON WHAT THE
ALTERATIONS ALTERATIONS AS LONG
AS I'M UP THE CODE BUT SINCE
HE'S GOING FROM ONE TO TWO AND
IT'S NOT A NON CONFORMING UNIT,
DOES TO MEET THE LOT SIZE
REQUIREMENTS.
THANK YOU.
YOU HAVE ANOTHER COMMENT.
I GREW UP IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
I GREW UP 914 DUEY WHICH MY
BROTHER AND I STILL OWN MY
DAD IN THE EARLY 1950S TURNED
IT INTO A DUPLEX WITH THE
DORMER UP ON THE SECOND FLOOR.
IT'S A MODEST DUPLEX THAT MY
BROTHER AND I STILL OWN AND WE
RENT A TRULY AFFORDABLE RENTAL
RATES THAT ARE AFFORDABLE FOR
PEOPLE PROBABLY THIRTY FIVE
PERCENT OF EMI.
I'M INTIMATELY FAMILIAR WITH
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD ALL THE ARE
ALMOST ALL THE LIGHTS WOULD BE
DEFICIENT FOR BEING CONVERTED
TO DUPLEXES AND I THINK THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD IS IDEAL FOR
DUPLEXES AS MODEST INCREASES IN
DENSITY WITHOUT GOING UP 10
STORIES OR ANYTHING BUT
INCREASING THE DENSITY AND
STILL ALLOWING SPACE AND YARD
AND BACKYARDS FOR PARKING AND
AND THE LIKE.
IT'S AS THE PETITIONER SAID,
IT'S A IT'S A MINIMAL MINIMAL
REQUEST JUST TO MAKE TO BECAUSE
THERE ARE A LOT SIZE IS
SLIGHTLY TOO SMALL WHICH IS
TRUE OF ALMOST ALL THE LOTS IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD, INCLUDING
THE LOTS ON DEWEY STREET.
SO I'M IN FAVOR OF THIS.
I THINK THIS IS THE KIND OF LOW
IMPACT INCREASES THAT ARE IN
KEEPING WITH THE NATURE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND I'M GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS.
>> I'LL JUST SAY I AGREE WITH
EVERYTHING YOU SAID, DAVE,
EXCEPT FOR GROWING UP AND WE
AND I GREW UP UNTIL ANY OTHER
COMMENTS WE READY FOR A MOTION
.
>> THEY HAVE A MOTION.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZIBA TWENTY
FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO THREE
NINE TWENTY FOUR WOODLAWN
AVENUE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF FOUR HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH TO TWO FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT
DIMENSIONS.
IF GRANTED, THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE CONSTRUCTION OF A
DUPLEX TO AN EXISTING SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENCE TO SUBJECT
PROPERTY IS FORTY SIX HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET AN AREA TO DUPLEXES
TO BE BUILT ACCORDING TO THE
SUBMITTED PLANS.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT FOR RIGHT?
>> WE'LL SAY DARMA DAVE DAVE
ALREADY?
YES.
CHRISTINA YES.
PATTY YES DREW.
>> YES.
I ALSO YES DERMO YES.
JULIE YES.
THE REQUEST IS GRANTED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION'S QUBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE TWO FIVE TWO ZERO SEWELL
BOULEVARD JOHN
RIGHT IS TZVIA
TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO THREE TWO
ADDRESSED AS FIVE TWENTY
BOULEVARD
IF I CAN FIND MY
STAFF REPORT
ROB PARKER
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY OWNER
IS REQUESTING A VARIANCE OF ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY NINE POINT
SIX SQUARE FEET FROM SECTION
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
SUBSECTION D ACCESSORY USERS
AND STRUCTURES.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW A TWO STOREY DETACHED
GARAGE WITH AN ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNIT ALSO KNOWN AS AN
ADD ABOVE TO EXCEED THE
ALLOWABLE THIRTY FIVE PERCENT
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT FOR
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES.
THE MAXIMUM ALLOW BUILDING
FOOTPRINT IN THE REAR OPEN
SPACE IN THIS CORNER WHAT IS
TWO HUNDRED FORTY ONE SQUARE
FEET THE PROPOSED TWO STOREY
GARAGE AND EIGHTY YOU WILL HAVE
A FOOTPRINT OF FOUR HUNDRED AND
TWENTY POINT SIX SQUARE FEET IN
THAT REAR OPEN SPACE AREA.
THE PROPERTY ZONED R1 D SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL THE SUBJECT
PROPERTY IS ON A CORNER LOT AND
THE WEST SIDE OF SUEL BOULEVARD
SOUTH OF WEST LIBERTY STREET IN
THE EBER WHITE NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE PARCELS AT THE INTERSECTION
SEWELL BOULEVARD AND WAKEFIELD
AVENUE.
THE HOME WAS CONSTRUCTED IN
1929 AND IS APPROXIMATELY ONE
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTEEN SQUARE FEET IN THE
AREA THE PARCEL CONTAINS SEVEN
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED TEN
SQUARE FEET THE REAR OPEN SPACE
FOR THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS
TWENTY FIVE THIRTY FOUR POINT
FOUR THREE FEET FOR A TOTAL
OF SIX HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SEVEN
SQUARE FEET THE MAXIMUM ALLOWED
IN PREVIOUS BUILDING FOOTPRINT
IS TWO HUNDRED FORTY ONE SQUARE
FEET.
THE TOTAL FOOTPRINT THE
DETACHED STRUCTURE IS SIX
HUNDRED THIRTEEN POINT FOUR BUT
ONLY FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY SIX
POINT FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY POINT
SIX SQUARE FEET OF THAT WILL BE
IN THE REAR OPEN SPACE.
THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE BUILDING
WILL BE SIX FEET FROM THE REAR
LINE AND THE WEST SIDE WILL
MEET THE REQUIRED THREE FOOT
SIDE YARD SETBACK.
THE ENTRANCE TO THE GARAGE WILL
FACE WAKEFIELD AVENUE.
THE EIGHTY ONE RESEMBLE AN
EFFICIENCY APARTMENT AS THERE
WILL BE NO THAT WILL NOT BE A
DEDICATED BEDROOM.
THE EIGHTY YOU WILL HAVE AN
OFFICE LIVING AREA, A SMALL
KITCHEN AND A BATHROOM AND
MURPHY BED IF YOU WILL TURN
YOUR ATTENTION TO THE MONITOR'S
YOU SEE THE FIRST SLIDE IS THE
ZONING MAP.
YOU SEE THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
HIGHLIGHTED IN THE CENTER
OF YOUR SCREEN THE CORNER
OF SEWELL AND WAKEFIELD.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA
MAPS SHOWING SURROUNDING
PROPERTIES AND EXISTING
CONDITIONS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
IS A ZOOMED IN AERIAL PHOTO
OF THE SUBJECT PROPERTY WITH
THE EXISTING GARAGE IN ITS
CURRENT STATE AND ITS PROPOSED
TO BE DEMOLISHED.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY THAT
WAS SUBMITTED WITH THE
APPLICATION.
THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SITE PLAN
SHOWING THE PROPOSED DETACHED
GARAGE AND I HAVE TAKEN A BOLD
RED LINE TO SHOW MORE THAT 20
FOOT REARGUARD STEP BACK IS AND
THEN YOU SEE THE PORTION OF THE
BUILDING THE STRUCTURE OUTSIDE
OF THE 20 FOOT STEP BACK WITH
THE STAIRWELL TO THE SECOND
FLOOR AND STORAGE AREA ON THE
FIRST FLOOR AND THAT PORTION IS
NOT IN THE REAR OPEN SPACE AND
IS NOT COUNTED TOWARDS THE
VARIANCE REQUEST.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE
EXISTING RESIDENCE AND ON THE
TOP AND THEN THE BOTTOM SHOWS
THE PROPOSED GARAGE WITH THE
EIGHTY YOU AND THE SECOND FLOOR
IN THE CENTER OF THE SCREEN YOU
SEE LIKE THE EFFICIENCY
APARTMENT UNIT AND THEN THE
LOWER RIGHT IS THE PROPOSED
FIRST FLOOR WITH THE GARAGE THE
STAIRWELL IN THE STORAGE AREA
AND THAT YOU SEE THE BOLD RED
LINE SHOWS THAT AREA NOT
COUNTING TOWARDS THE VARIANCE
REQUEST.
THESE ARE ELEVATOR DRAWINGS
THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT.
THESE ARE MORE ELEVATION
DRAWINGS, THE PROPOSED
STRUCTURE AND THEN THE BOTTOM
IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
HOME.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK WHEN I MADE MY INSPECTION
OF THE PROPERTY.
I SEE THE FRONT OF THE PROPERTY
AND STILL CANCEL.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS ON MY BACK
TOWARDS WAKEFIELD LOOKING
DIRECTLY AT THE EXISTING GARAGE
AND ITS CURRENT CONDITION.
YOU SEE THE RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE BACK PROPERTY LINE TO THE
LEFT AND THEN THE HOUSE TO THE
RIGHT JUST LOOKING TOWARDS THE
HOUSE AND LOOKING AT THE
RELATIONSHIP OF THE TWO
STRUCTURES.
THIS IS THE EXISTING GARAGE AND
LOOKING TOWARDS THE SOUTH
TOWARDS ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNERS.
THIS IS LOOKING AT THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE TWO
STRUCTURES THE PRINCIPAL
RESIDENCE AND THE EXISTING
GARAGE RIGHT NOW AND LOOKING
DIRECTLY ACROSS THE STREET AT
NEIGHBORS AND LOOKING ALSO
ACROSS THE STREET AT THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES THAT
CONCLUDES MY PRESENTATION AT
THIS TIME YOU ALSO HAVE A
HANDOUT OF THE STATISTICS
SHOWING YOU I BY AND LARGE THAT
YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO SEE THAT
ON THE SCREEN.
IT'S IN YOUR STAFF REPORT AS
WELL.
IT SHOWS THE STATISTICS OF THE
AVAILABLE AREA AND THE SET
OF OUR CALCULATIONS AS WELL.
I CAN TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU MAY HAVE AT THIS TIME
OF THAT AND ALSO THE ROB PARKER
THE APPLICANT CAN ALSO EXPLAIN
SOME THAT IF YOU HAVE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS TO THANK YOU JOHN
JULEE.
>> SO HOW IS THE EXISTING KARAJ
RELATE LIKE THAT'S GOING TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND THE NEW ONE
WHERE DOES THE EXISTING GARAGE
SIT IN THE PROPERTY LIKE LIKE
WHAT'S GOING TO BE THE I CAN
ANSWER TO THE PRESENTATION.
WELL WHERE DOES THE EXISTING
GARAGE SIT RIGHT NOW?
YEAH, RIGHT.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE SURVEY YOU
CAN SEE ON THAT SCREEN THE
EXISTING CONDITIONS RIGHT NOW,
OK?
I MEAN SO IT IS ALSO OUT OF THE
LIKE IF IT IT IT'S ALSO NOT
CONFORMING.
YEAH, IT'S NOT THAT AREA YOU
SHOULD HAVE I GAVE EVERYONE I
KNOW YOU HAD A LOT OF PAPERS
AND I JUST BOUGHT THIS THIS ONE
IT LOOKS LIKE THIS BUT OH THIS
AREA QUITE QUICKLY OH IMPALES
DE SO THIS GOES LET ME ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION OK SO JULIE DO
YOU HAVE IT SO DO YOU SEE WHERE
IT SAYS THE LITTLE AREA WITHIN
EARSHOT BACK ALLOWED US ONE
SQUARE FEET.
OK AND THEN JUST BELOW THAT
SAYS EXISTING GARAGE WITHIN THE
REAR STEP BACK AND THAT EXCEEDS
ITS THREE NINETY FIVE POINT ONE
THAT EXCEEDS THE 241 BY
APPROXIMATELY 145 150 FEET NOT
DOING THE MATTER OF FOOT AND
THEN YOU SEE THE PROPOSED
GARAGE BELOW THAT AT FOUR
TWENTY POINT SIX WITH A NET
CHANGE WITHIN THE REAR BACK
OF AN ADDITIONAL TWENTY FIVE
POINT FIVE SQUARE FEET.
OK, DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
IT WILL GIVE ME A SECOND.
YEAH BUT IT IS HELPFUL.
THE TOTAL IS TWENTY FIVE SQUARE
FEET DIFFERENT.
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE FROM THE
EXISTING AND PROPOSED BUT
THAT'S NOT THE RIGHT I KNOW
THAT'S WHAT THE VARIANCE
BECAUSE THEY'RE HAVING TO SEEK
THIS WHOLE VARIANCE REQUIRED
BECAUSE THEY'RE TAKING TO
DEMOLISHING THE EXISTING
BUILDING AND REBUILDING AND
THAT'S THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE CURRENT CONDITIONS AND THE
PROPOSED YEAH.
OR THE THE CURRENT CODE AND THE
PROPOSED POSITION.
OK,
SO I'M GUESSING THAT THE
STRUCTURE ISN'T IS PROBABLY
WANTING TO BE TORN DOWN AND BE
REPLACED BECAUSE OF CONDITIONS
THE CONDITION OF THE STRUCTURE.
BUT I'LL ASK THE PETITIONER
ABOUT THAT IF THE PETITIONER
CAME IN AND JUST SAID I WANT TO
PUT A SECOND FLOOR ON THIS FOR
AN IDEA AND WOULD THAT BE AN
ALTERATION TO A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE IF THEY DIDN'T CHANGE
FOOTPRINT?
YES, I BELIEVE SO.
THANK YOU.
YOU'LL HAVE TO KEEP MOVING
ALONG.
>> OH I THAT'S I WANT TO READ
SOMETHING BUT YOU'RE QUITE THE
ANSWER TO YOUR QUESTION RIGHT
NOW.
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR JOHN?
>> ALL RIGHT.
IF THE PETITIONERS HERE IF
YOU'D LIKE TO COME FORWARD AND
STATE YOUR NAME YOU WILL HAVE
FIVE MINUTES.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOE FAZIO.
MY WIFE AND I AT LEAST PETROL
ARE THE OWNERS OF THE HOUSE.
I WAS LIKEWISE CONFUSED BY THE
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS THAT WAS
QUESTIONED A FEW MOMENTS AGO.
I'M GOING TO LEAVE IT TO ROB TO
MAKE THE PRESENTATION.
I'LL BE GLAD TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS THAT I CAN'T THANK
YOU THOUGH ROB DAVIS
OF ANGELENA ASSOCIATES
ARCHITECTS AND ARVA QUICK
COUPLE CORRECTIONS FOR THE
RECORD ROB DAVIS NOT ROB PARKER
THEN SECONDLY I THINK ON THE
STAFF REPORT IT NOTED THAT THE
THREE FOOT EASEMENT WAS ON THE
SOUTH SIDE BUT IT'S ACTUALLY
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
LINE THAT HAS THAT WE'RE
MEETING THREE FOOT EASEMENT FOR
AND I THINK I HAVE A
PRESENTATION I DON'T KNOW IF IT
WAS RECEIVED OR UPLOADED.
OH, IT'S DOWNLOADED ON THERE.
WE DOWNLOADED IT.
YEP.
YEAH, IT'S IN THE AND WE ALSO
HAVE IT IN THE BACK.
OK, GIVE ME ONE SECOND.
LET ME TELL YOU CAN HOPEFULLY
YOU CAN HEAR ME RIGHT NOW TIM
IF YOU'RE LISTENING HOPEFULLY
YOU ARE THE APPLICANT THERE WE
GO MAGIC LIKE MAGIC.
THANK YOU TIM YOU WANT TO TRY
TO WE DON'T WANT TO DOWNLOAD BE
AN ACROBAT WE'LL JUST YEAH.
THERE YOU GO LATER.
YEAH
YOU GUYS ONLY THE
ASSISTANT YOU CAN CLOSE THAT
AND WE GO OK I THINK WE'RE GOOD
TO GO THEN OK SO WE'LL SEE.
>> SO AS YOU KIND OF DISCUSSED
IN YOUR STAFF REPORT THIS IS
THE PROJECT SITE LOCATED ON
SEWELL AND WAKEFIELD.
IT'S A CORNER LOT AND EBER WIDE
AREA NINETEEN TWENTY NINE WAS
BUILT OWNERS PURCHASED AT
NINETEEN EIGHTY NINE AND HAVE
BEEN THERE THIRTY SIX YEARS NOW
KIND OF DOUBLE DOWN IN TWENTY
FOR THIS TO BE THERE FOREVER
HOME AFTER ENDURING HOUSE FIRE
THAT RESULTED IN A SEVEN MONTH
REDUCTION OR MODIFICATION
RENOVATION REMODELING PROJECT
SO AT THAT POINT THEY KIND
OF DOUBLED DOWN.
THIS IS GOING TO BE OUR FOREVER
HOME AND THAT IS WHAT THEY
WOULD LIKE TO DO AND HOPEFULLY
WE'D LIKE TO STAY THERE AS LONG
AS THEY CAN.
THE GOAL IS TO CREATE A LIVING
SPACE TO TOP A GARAGE TO SERVE
AS KIND OF LIKE A SECONDARY
MEETING SPACE FOR THEIR CLIENTS
OUTSIDE OF THEIR PRIVATE
RESIDENCE AND THEN AS THEY GET
OLDER THAT WOULD HELP THEN
SERVE FLEXIBILITY FOR CARE
WORKERS, HEALTH GIVERS TO STAY
ON, STAY FAMILY MEMBERS TO STAY
INSIDE AND HELP AROUND THE
HOUSE
.
>> SO HERE ARE EXISTING PHOTOS
SO I KNOW TO JUST I'M GOING TO
.
JUST JUMP IN TO YOUR QUESTION
SO I KNOW TO JUST I'M GOING TO
ABOUT WHY NOT BUILDING DIRECTLY
JUST JUMP IN TO YOUR QUESTION
ON TOP OF THE EXISTING
ABOUT WHY NOT BUILDING DIRECTLY
FOOTPRINT THAT WAS THE FIRST
ON TOP OF THE EXISTING
CHOICE ANNEX.
FOOTPRINT THAT WAS THE FIRST
PROBABLY WHY WE GOT INVOLVED
CHOICE ANNEX.
WAS BECAUSE THIS WAS GOING TO
PROBABLY WHY WE GOT INVOLVED
REQUIRE VARIANCE FOR THE REASON
WAS BECAUSE THIS WAS GOING TO
THAT WE CANNOT SIMPLY BUILD ON
REQUIRE VARIANCE FOR THE REASON
TOP.
THAT WE CANNOT SIMPLY BUILD ON
IT'S HAPPENS TO BE THERE'S A
TOP.
SIX FOOT EASEMENT THAT IS A
IT'S HAPPENS TO BE THERE'S A
EASEMENT ON EITHER SIDE THAT
SIX FOOT EASEMENT THAT IS A
BASICALLY IS GOING TO PROHIBIT
EASEMENT ON EITHER SIDE THAT
US FROM BUILDING DIRECTLY ON
BASICALLY IS GOING TO PROHIBIT
TOP OF THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
US FROM BUILDING DIRECTLY ON
AND ADDITIONALLY THE THE
TOP OF THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
FOUNDATION THEY'RE NOT FULL
AND ADDITIONALLY THE THE
FOOTINGS WOULD THEN PROHIBIT
FOUNDATION THEY'RE NOT FULL
ALSO THEN ANY SORT OF JUST
FOOTINGS WOULD THEN PROHIBIT
BUILDING ON TOP WITHOUT MASSIVE
ALSO THEN ANY SORT OF JUST
REMODELING OR RECONSTRUCTION.
BUILDING ON TOP WITHOUT MASSIVE
SO THIS IS A LARGE PHOTO YOU
REMODELING OR RECONSTRUCTION.
CAN KIND OF SEE DOWN THE LINE
SO THIS IS A LARGE PHOTO YOU
THE WIRES AND THE EASEMENT
CAN KIND OF SEE DOWN THE LINE
THAT'S KIND OF THAT AND IT'S
THE WIRES AND THE EASEMENT
ALSO EXISTING.
THAT'S KIND OF THAT AND IT'S
IT'S ONLY TWO FOOT SIX FROM THE
ALSO EXISTING.
WEST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
IT'S ONLY TWO FOOT SIX FROM THE
SO TO GO UP TO THE POINT
WEST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY LINE.
OF THAT, IT'S NOT A CONFORMING
SO TO GO UP TO THE POINT
STRUCTURE IN THAT REGARD HERE
OF THAT, IT'S NOT A CONFORMING
IS KIND OF IN GREEN YOU'RE
STRUCTURE IN THAT REGARD HERE
GOING TO SEE OR IT'S THE OPEN
IS KIND OF IN GREEN YOU'RE
AREA THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY BUILD
GOING TO SEE OR IT'S THE OPEN
IN THE REAR OPEN YARD AS WE
AREA THAT WE CAN ACTUALLY BUILD
CALL THE BLACK OUTLINE IS THE
IN THE REAR OPEN YARD AS WE
EXISTING GARAGE AND THEN WHAT
CALL THE BLACK OUTLINE IS THE
WE HAVE IN BLUE IS ACTUALLY
EXISTING GARAGE AND THEN WHAT
WHAT WOULD BE ALLOWABLE PER THE
WE HAVE IN BLUE IS ACTUALLY
ZONING CODE AS IT'S WRITTEN.
WHAT WOULD BE ALLOWABLE PER THE
SO THE AREA IN RED IS WHAT IS
ZONING CODE AS IT'S WRITTEN.
ALREADY NONCONFORMING
SO THE AREA IN RED IS WHAT IS
STRUCTURE.
ALREADY NONCONFORMING
SO OF THIS ENTIRE GARAGE YOU
STRUCTURE.
COULD SEE IT WOULD NO LONGER BE
SO OF THIS ENTIRE GARAGE YOU
ABLE TO BE A TWO STALL GARAGE
COULD SEE IT WOULD NO LONGER BE
IF THAT WERE THE CASE.
ABLE TO BE A TWO STALL GARAGE
AND THEN TO MAKE MATTERS WORSE,
IF THAT WERE THE CASE.
WE ALSO HAVE THEN THE SIX FOOT
AND THEN TO MAKE MATTERS WORSE,
EASEMENT THERE AND FORGIVE ME
WE ALSO HAVE THEN THE SIX FOOT
THIS WAS SURVEYS ROTATED NORTH
EASEMENT THERE AND FORGIVE ME
IS ACTUALLY TO THE LEFT BUT
THIS WAS SURVEYS ROTATED NORTH
ALONG THAT THE WEST BOUNDARY IS
IS ACTUALLY TO THE LEFT BUT
ALSO JUST MAKING THINGS A
ALONG THAT THE WEST BOUNDARY IS
LITTLE MORE DIFFICULT.
ALSO JUST MAKING THINGS A
>> IT'S COME ON SO ONE D ZONING
LITTLE MORE DIFFICULT.
SO WE HAVE ANOTHER COMPLICATION
>> IT'S COME ON SO ONE D ZONING
THAT IT'S THE CORNER LOT WITH
SO WE HAVE ANOTHER COMPLICATION
TWO FRONT YARD SETBACKS.
THAT IT'S THE CORNER LOT WITH
SO WE HAVE
TWENTY FIVE FOOT TWO
DIRECTIONS AND A 20 FOOT REAR
YARD STEP BACK WHICH THEN
LIMITS THE OPEN YARD SPACE TO
BEGIN WITH.
HOWEVER AS YOU SEE HIGHLIGHTED
THERE WITH FOOTNOTE A THIS IS
ALSO SUBJECT TO THE AVERAGE SET
BACK RULES.
>> THIRTY SECONDS OH NO.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO IT'S ALSO THIRTY TWO AND A
HALF FEET IS THE AVERAGE SET
BACK SO THAT'S EVEN PUSHING
REARGUARD STEP BACK EVEN WORSE
.
>> SO WE'LL JUMP INTO
EVERYTHING SO IT'S NOT A
DIFFICULTY OF CHOICE BASICALLY
IT'S A PECULIAR AND UNIQUE
SITUATION WITH THE YARD LOTS
AND THE FRONT YARDS CORNER LOT.
THIS IS A DIAGRAM OF WHAT WOULD
PROPOSE VERSUS WHAT THE
EXISTING IS AND THEN WHAT WOULD
BE WITHOUT VARIANCE.
AND YOU CAN SEE THAT THAT'S
QUITE A DRASTIC DIFFERENCE OF A
GOOD FORM AND STRUCTURE WITHOUT
A VARIANCE.
THIS IS THE SIZE AND SCALE
OF WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING TO THE
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD HERE IS
KIND OF THE EXISTING STRUCTURE
.
LET'S WRAP IT UP.
WE'LL GO TO JUST THE LAST SLIDE
HERE.
SO TO SUM IT UP, THE AREA IN
ORANGE IS KIND OF WHAT WE'RE
PROPOSING TO HAVE AS THE
VARIANCE REQUEST 1779 POINT SIX
FEET THERE IN BLUE IS THE
EXISTING AREA THAT'S BEEN
EXCEEDED ALREADY.
SO IT'S A NON CONFORMING
STRUCTURE IN SHORT, ALL WE'RE
ASKING FOR IS AN ADDITIONAL
TWENTY FIVE AND A HALF SQUARE
FEET TO GIVE THEM THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE IN THEIR
FOREVER HOME.
>> THANK YOU FOR APOLOGIZE
ABOUT CALLING ME BY A DIFFERENT
NAME.
>> SO ANY QUESTIONS?
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER
DAVE SO THE NEW STRUCTURE WOULD
THAT BE FURTHERER WAY FROM THE
LINE TO ACCOMMODATE ADT?
>> YES.
SO ACTUALLY WHAT WE ARE
PROPOSING IS ACTUALLY GOING TO
SATISFY ALL OF THE SUB
REQUIREMENTS INCLUDING GETTING
SIX FEET FROM THE WEST.
WE'RE GOING TO BE WITHIN THE
THIRTY TWO POINT FIVE SEVEN
FEET FROM THE SOUTH FRONT AND
THEN ALSO THREE FEET FROM THE
REAR YARD.
AND THEN WE'RE ALSO PROPOSING
TO MEET THE LIMITATION OF NO
MORE THAN TWENTY ONE FEET
AVERAGE.
>> SO YOU'RE ACTUALLY
CORRECTING NONCONFORMITY
SETBACKS WITH THE NEW
STRUCTURE.
IT'S NOT ONLY YOU'RE NOT ONLY
GETTING THAT ASKING FOR THAT
VARIANCE BUT YOU'RE ALSO
CORRECTING SOME EXISTING SET
BACK NOT YES, EVERYTHING IS
GOING TO BE ENTIRELY CONFORMING
WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE
THIRTY FIVE PERCENT THRESHOLD
WHICH AGAIN IS BECAUSE IT'S A
PECULIAR LOT WOULDN'T OTHERWISE
BE A PROBLEM.
AND I DO NOTE THAT THE OWNERS
HAVE LIVED HERE FOR SOME TIME
HAVE YOU ASKED NEIGHBORS TO
WEIGH IN ON THIS?
>> THERE HAVE BEEN I BELIEVE
WE'VE RECEIVED A FEW LETTERS
OF SUPPORT.
I BELIEVE JOHN HAD RECEIVED
THEM AND THEN I GUESS WE'LL
WE'LL KNOW THOSE AS PART OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND YOUR OTHER QUESTIONS NOW
THE QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE ELSE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION, PLEASE COME
FORWARD.
>> PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD SIGNING.
YOU'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES
RIGHT
.
MY NAME IS GREG CRANE.
I LIVE AT FOURTEEN WAKEFIELD
AVENUE STANDING HERE TO OPPOSE
THIS REQUEST FOR VARIANCE THE
OPPONENTS ARE ASKING FOR
MASSIVE EXCEPTION TO THE RARE
OPEN SPACE LAW IN ORDER TO
BUILD THE PROPOSED IDU AND IF
YOU STRUCTURE CAN ONLY OCCUPY
THIRTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE REAR
OPEN SPACE BUT THE APPLICANTS
WANT TO OCCUPY MORE THAN SIXTY
ONE PERCENT OF THE REAR OPEN
SPACE THAT IS SEVENTY FIVE
PERCENT MORE THAN MORE SPACE
THAN IS ALLOWED THAT OPPONENTS
HAVE NOT MADE A COMPELLING CASE
IN MY VIEW FOR SUCH AN ENORMOUS
VARIANCE THE OPPONENTS HAVE
DEMONSTRATED NO NEED FOR THE
PROPOSED TO STRUCTURE ONE
OF THE CLAIMS AND THAT SEEMS TO
BE THE PRIMARY POINT OF THE
VARIANCE IS SHE WANTS TO RUN A
HOME COUNSELING BUSINESS FROM A
PROPOSED DETACHED AIDO BUT THAT
DOESN'T NEED A DETACHED TO TO
RUN HER BUSINESS FROM THE
PROPERTY.
THE APPLICANTS HAVE MANY OTHER
OPTIONS.
THE FIRST FLOOR OF THAT FOUR
BEDROOM HOUSE COULD EASILY AND
CHEAPLY BE MODIFIED TO CREATE A
WORKSPACE THAT IS ENTIRELY
SEPARATE FROM THE REST OF THE
HOUSE.
FOR INSTANCE, A WALL COULD BE
BUILT ACROSS THIS PART.
THIS IS THE FAMILY ROOM.
THERE'S ADDITIONAL BUILT
LOCKERBY BUILT HERE.
THIS IS A SEPARATE ENTRANCE
EXTERIOR ENTRANCE SO PEOPLE
CAME TO THE COUNSELING BUSINESS
COULD ENTER AND LEAVE THE
BUILDING WITHOUT GOING INTO THE
LIVING SPACE.
THE RESULTING SPACE WOULD BE
SEPARATE FROM THE MAIN HOUSE
ALSO TO POINT OUT THAT THAT
THIS IS I LIVE OVER HERE AND
THIS IS WHERE THE PROPOSED HERE
WOULD BE.
THE ADVOCATES ARE NOT PROPOSING
TO SEEK A VARIANCE FOR A
BUILDING HERE OR HERE OR A
MODIFICATION THEIR HOUSE
THEY'RE SEEKING TO DO IT HERE.
WHY NOT HERE OR HERE BECAUSE
THIS WOULD GO THROUGH CUT
SIGHTLINES.
THIS WOULD CUT LIGHT.
THIS WOULD AFFECT ADVERSELY
AFFECT THEIR LIVING SITUATION
IN THIS HOUSE.
BUT IF THEY BUILD THIS TWO
STOREY UNIT NEXT TO OUR HOUSE,
IT WILL ADVERSELY AFFECT US,
YOU KNOW, AFFECT OUR QUALITY
OF ALTERNATIVELY THE ATKINS
COULD RECONFIGURE OR EXPAND
THEIR EXISTING HOUSE TO
CONSTRUCT AND ATTACH IT TO
INSIDE THE HOUSE THAT CATS
CAN'T BUILD ATTACH IT TO YOU
ANYWHERE ON THE LOT WITHOUT
VIOLATING MANY ORDINANCES, LAWS
AND REGULATIONS.
BUT IT APPEARS THAT THEY MAY BE
ABLE TO BUILD AN ATTACH TO YOU
INSIDE THE HOUSE WITHOUT ANY
NEED FOR THE VARIANCES THAT ARE
REQUIRED FOR DETACH AIDO
FINALLY WITHOUT MAKING ANY
MODIFICATIONS TO THEIR HOUSE TO
OPERATE THEIR BUSINESS FROM
WITHIN THEIR EXISTING LARGE
HOUSE ONLY TWO PEOPLE LIVE.
NO PARENT SHOULD BE GRANTED
HERE BECAUSE OF DIFFICULTIES
THAT INSIGHT OR SELF IMPOSED
AND THE APPLICANTS BUILT THIS
SUBSTANTIAL ADDITION TO THEIR
HOUSE.
IT'S A TRUE STORY ADDITION THE
ADDITION CONSUME NEARLY
REMAINING BUILDABLE AREA THE
LOT THAT NOW AITKEN'S CAN PLAY
THERE'S NOWHERE TO BUILD BUT
THEY BUILT OUT ON THE LOT THE
WAY THAT IT IS THE PROBLEM IS
THEIR OWN CREATION DOCUMENTS
ARE MADE HERE ARE PLAYED OUT IN
MORE DETAIL AND DOCUMENTS THAT
WE FURNISHED TO THANKS.
>> THANK YOU
.
I'M LESLIE FORD AND I ALSO LIVE
AT 14 FOR WAKEFIELD.
NO SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE WOULD
RESULT FROM ALLOWING THIS
VARIANCE.
THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE WOULD
OFFER NO PUBLIC BENEFITS.
IT WOULD BE USED SOLELY FOR A
PRIVATE BUSINESS.
THE STRUCTURE WOULD RESULT IN
ROUGHLY 2500 SQUARE FEET
OF LIVING SPACE FOR ONLY TWO
PEOPLE.
THIS DOES NOT SERVE THE GOALS
OF HIGH DENSITY.
IT DOES EXACTLY THE OPPOSITE
THE AIDOO OR ORDINANCE WAS
INTENDED TO PROVIDE MORE
HOUSING FOR PEOPLE.
THE APPLICANTS AIDOO WILL NOT
CREATE ANY HOUSING IT WILL BE
USED FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS AND
FOR HYPOTHETICAL SPECULATIVE
FUTURE USES WHICH MAY OR MAY
NOT EVER COME TO PASS.
PROPERTY OWNERS ARE ONLY
ENTITLED TO A REASONABLE USE
OF THEIR PROPERTY.
THEY ARE NOT ENTITLED TO THE
GREATEST USE OR THE HIGHEST
POSSIBLE USE OR EVER USE.
THEY MIGHT DESIRE.
THE APPLICANTS HAVE REQUESTED
AN EXCEPTION TO ONLY ONE
ORDINANCE.
HOWEVER SEVERAL OTHER
ORDINANCES, LAWS AND
REGULATIONS WOULD BE VIOLATED
BY THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE.
THE APPLICANTS CAN'T BUILD THE
PROPOSED TO YOU WITHOUT GETTING
A VARIANCE FOR EACH OF THE
ORDINANCES THAT WOULD BE
VIOLATED SOME OTHER ORDINANCES
AND REGULATIONS THAT WOULD BE
VIOLATED INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING.
FIRST, LOCAL ORDINANCES REQUIRE
SIX FEET BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND
THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE.
BUT THE SPACE BETWEEN THE
PROPOSED AIDO AND THE EXISTING
HOUSE WOULD BE ONLY FOUR FEET
THREE INCHES.
THIS PRESENTS PRESENTS OF FIRE
AND SAFETY HAZARD.
SO HERE'S THE RESIDENCE.
HERE'S A PROPOSED STRUCTURE.
THE SPACE BETWEEN IS FOUR FEET
THREE INCHES.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE SIX FEET
AND I THINK YOU SAW THAT TWO
ENOUGH PHOTOS JOHN PROVIDED THE
IN ADDITION DTA REGULATIONS
REQUIRE THAT BUILDINGS BE AT
LEAST 15 FEET FROM THE
ELECTRICAL WIRES BUT THE ADA
WOULD BE ONLY ABOUT SIX FEET
FROM THE WIRES DUE TO
REGULATIONS ALSO STATE THAT NO
PERMANENT STRUCTURES CAN BE
BUILT IN DTT SIX FOOT UTILITY
EASEMENT.
BUT THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE
WOULD HAVE A PERMANENT BRICK
WALL AND AND A FENCED AREA FOR
GARBAGE BINS THAT WOULD EXTEND
WELL INTO EASEMENT.
APPLICANTS MAY ARGUE THAT BY
SITUATING THE PROPOSED
STRUCTURE ABOUT THREE AND A
HALF FEET FURTHER FROM OUR LINE
THAN THE EXISTING GARAGE AND
THEREBY RESOLVING SOME OF THE
NONCONFORMITY OF THE PREVIOUS
GARAGE, THIS HELPS THE CITY BUT
THIS IGNORES THE FACT THAT THE
NEW STRUCTURE AS PLANNED WOULD
HAVE A LARGER FOOTPRINT AND
ADDITIONAL STORY AND EXTEND
FURTHER TOWARD THE FRONT, SAID
PARK.
ANY BENEFIT OBTAINED BY
BUILDING THE NEW STRUCTURE
THREE AND A HALF FEET FURTHER
FROM THE LOFT LINE WOULD BE
SUBSTANTIALLY OUTWEIGHED BY THE
ENORMOUS SIZE OF THE VARIANCE
NEEDED TO BUILD THE PROPOSED
STRUCTURE AND BY THE INCREASED
OCCUPATION OF THE REAR THE REAR
YARD.
THIRTY SECONDS.
THE ORDINANCES ALSO REQUIRE A
THREE FOOT
SET BACK AT THE REAR
FLAT LINE NO PERMANENT
STRUCTURES CAN BE BUILT IN THE
REAR REQUIRED SETBACK AREA.
I'M SORRY IF THE REQUIRED SET
BACK HERE IN THE BRICK WALL AND
FENCES IN THE GARBAGE AREA
APPEAR TO VIOLATE THE THREE
FOOT SETBACK REQUIREMENT.
BUT APPLICANTS HAVE NOT
PROVIDED ENOUGH INFORMATION IN
THEIR DRAWINGS TO DETERMINE
WHETHER THAT IS SO OR NOT.
>> THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK ON THIS PETITION IS THERE
IF THERE'S ANYONE REMOTELY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR USE
THE RAISE HAND BUTTON JUST SOME
OTHER POINTS AS A LIVING IN A
NEIGHBORHOOD, IF WE HAVE
QUESTIONS WE'LL ASK YOU TO COME
BACK UP THERE.
NO COME.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, COURTNEY.
WE DID RECEIVE SOME
COMMUNICATION ON THIS PETITION.
WE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION
OUTLINING THE OBJECTIONS FROM
LESLIE FORD.
WE ALSO RECEIVED A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM THE
HOMEOWNERS AT 14 06 WAKEFIELD
AVENUE AS WELL AS A LETTER
OF SUPPORT FROM FOURTEEN EIGHT
WAKEFIELD.
>> AND WITH THAT THE PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION
EVERYONE'S CLEARLY
DEEP IN THOUGHT
SO JOHN, I'LL
ASK YOU MAYBE YOU KNOW, MAYBE
NOT THE COMMENTS THAT WERE MADE
ABOUT THE SEPARATION BETWEEN
THE HOUSE AND THE GARAGE BEING
SIX FEET AND IT'S ONLY FOUR AND
SOME CHANGE IS IT SOMETHING
THAT'S REVIEWED AS PART THE
BUILDING PERMIT IS AS SOMETHING
THAT'S REVIEWED AS PART
OF ZONING COMPLIANCE?
>> IS THAT THE ACTUAL STANDARD
THAT THE CITY ENFORCES?
>> I'M NOT AWARE OF THAT
CODE REQUIREMENT THAT'S NOT IN
THE ZONING ORDINANCE DC IT'S
NOT A CODE REQUIREMENT FOR
ZONING AND ALSO IF THE ONLY ONE
THAT I'M AWARE OF IS FIRE
SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS FOR
BUILDING CODE .
AND SO WHEN YOU HAVE TWO
STRUCTURES THAT ARE FIVE FEET
OR LESS TO ONE ANOTHER OR FIVE
FEET OR LESS TO A LOT LINE THE
EXTERIOR OF THE BUILDING WILL
BE HAVE TO BE CONSTRUCTED
OF FIRE RATED MATERIALS.
>> OK, BUT THAT'S NOT TO BE
SOMETHING REVIEWED AS PART
OF THE BUILDING PERMIT THAT
WOULD BE ADDRESSED TO THE
BUILDING, NOT THE ZONING
REVIEW.
>> THANK YOU.
>> SORRY WE'RE IN DISCUSSION
MAYBE CHRISTINE.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
DID THE APPLICANT TALK THROUGH
ANY OPTION THAT THEY EXPLORED
TO MINIMIZE OR ACTUALLY TO JUST
PUSH THE GARAGE UP TO HAVE A
SHARED WALL WITH THE RESIDENTS?
>> I DIDN'T HAVE ANY
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE GOING
ABOUT THAT IF YOU WANT TO CALL
THE SURE.
REPRESENTATIVE UP HERE, I GUESS
YOU COULD ASK HIM THAT BUT I
YEAH, OK, I JUST HAVEN'T SEEN
SOMETHING YEAH.
I'D LIKE NO THANK YOU.
>> YEAH I MEAN THE PRIMARY
REASON IS THAT YOU NEEDS TO BE
SEPARATE ON THE SITE AS PART
OF I BELIEVE THE ZONING CODE AS
OPPOSED TO IF YOU'RE HAVING TWO
BUILDINGS YOU YOU CAN ACTUALLY
YOU CAN HAVE THREE DIFFERENT
TYPES OF AREAS.
THERE CAN BE A DETACHED TO YOU
IN ADDITION TO AN EXISTING
STRUCTURE OR ONE WITHIN THE
INTERIOR SAY LIKE SOMEONE
COMVERSE OR BASEMENT TO AN AIDE
TO YOU.
SO YOU HAVE THREE DIFFERENT
KINDS OF INTERIOR IN ADDITION
AND A STANDALONE DENHA SO ON
THE OTHER ITERATIONS SO THERE
IS A IN ORDER TO GET ACCESS THE
BACK BACKYARD THERE IS AN
EXISTING ALLEY YOU SAW IN THE
PREVIOUS PHOTOS SO IT WAS ABOUT
PRESERVING THAT ACCESS TO THE
BACKYARD AND THEN THERE WAS
ALSO JUST THE FACT THAT IT'S A
GARAGE AND THEN ALSO SERVING
SOME PRIVACY BETWEEN THE HOUSE
AND THEN THE CLIENT ACCESS
SPACE.
WHAT'S THE OTHER CONSIDERATION?
I'M TRYING TO CREATE A LITTLE
MORE PRIVACY BUT PRIVACY FROM
FROM THE HOMEOWNERS LIVING
QUARTERS VERSUS LIKE IF THEY'RE
GOING TO HAVE COUNSELING
SESSIONS WITH CLIENT MEETINGS
ON THE SECOND FLOOR WHEN
THEY'RE USING FOR THAT.
OK, OK, THANK YOU DAVE.
THIS IS A PROBLEMATIC ONE FOR
ME AND THAT BEING THAT WE HAVE
PRETTY STRICT STANDARDS THAT WE
WANT TO TRY TO MEET AS MUCH AS
WE CAN AND I'M HAVING
DIFFICULTY DOING THAT IN THIS
CASE AND ONE THING I'D LIKE TO
SAY IS THESE CORNER SHOTS WE'VE
SEEN THEM TIME AND AGAIN HERE
THE ZONING BOARD AND THEY
ALWAYS GIVE US PROBLEMS BECAUSE
THEY HAVE TWO LARGE SETBACKS
FOR TWO FRONT YARDS AND IT
CREATES A LOT OF PROBLEMS.
I MEAN I WOULD SAY FOR PEOPLE
THAT CAN LOOK AT OUR ZONING
STANDARDS MAYBE ONE CURE FOR US
IN THE FUTURE COULD BE TO ALLOW
CONSIDER VERSION OF OPEN SPACE
ON THE ENTIRE PARCEL TO WHEN
THERE'S A SECOND FRONT YARD TO
REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF REAR FRONT
AND REAR YARD THAT NEEDS TO BE
OPEN.
BUT THAT'S FOR THAT'S A POLICY
CHANGE THAT WE DON'T HAVE RIGHT
HERE.
>> IT'S IT'S A DIFFICULT
SITUATION.
IT'S I LIKE THE FACT THAT
YOU'RE RESOLVING SOME OF THE
SETBACK ISSUES BUT I THINK I'M
GOING TO HAVE TO VOTE AGAINST
THIS UNLESS I CAN BE PERSUADED
BY SOME OF MY COLLEAGUES HERE
ON THE ZONING BOARD
WHAT I'VE
BE ABLE TO KNOW JUST IN
ADDITION TO THE FRONT YARD STEP
BACK, IT'S ALSO THE AVERAGE
FRONT STEP FOR THE NEIGHBORING
PROPERTIES WHICH THEN TAKES
AWAY ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY
EIGHT OF YOUR OPEN YARD WHICH
THEN EQUATES TO A FIFTY SQUARE
FEET OF BUILDABLE SPACE.
SO THAT'S ALSO KIND ENTERING
WHAT WE WOULD LIKE TO DO IN
ORDER FOR THEM TO HAVE A PLACE
THAT THEY CAN LIVE IN.
FREVERT
, I'D LIKE TO ADD THAT
THE AVERAGING SETBACK IS
SOMETHING THAT IS ALWAYS
PRESENT PROBLEMS TO ME AS A
MEMBER OF THE ZONING BOARD AND
I'VE FREQUENTLY ARGUED AND I'VE
GONE AND LOOKED AT SITES AND
TAKEN A LOOK DOWN THE STREET
AND SEEN WHAT WE HAVE AND THEN
I LOOK AT WHAT COULD BE
REASONABLE IN TERMS OF THE
ACTUAL ZONING IF THE ZONING
CODE SAYS TWENTY FIVE FEET AND
SOMEBODY ELSE DOWN THE STREET
IS AT TWENTY FIVE FEET OR CLOSE
TO TWENTY FIVE FEET AND THEN WE
HAVE PEOPLE SETBACK GREATER
DISTANCES OF WE CREATE THIS
AVERAGING THING IN BUT THAT'S
ANOTHER PROBLEMATIC PART OF OUR
CODE THAT I'VE ARGUED AGAINST
IN PARTICULAR CASES I CAN'T DO
THAT.
YOU'RE NOT ASKING FOR A FRONT
YARD VARIANCE SO I CAN'T DO
THAT
SO I'M READY TO MAKE A
MOTION IF ANYBODY WANTS TO
CHIME IN NOT OK.
OH THE DISCUSSION RIGHT.
GO AHEAD DAVE.
THANK YOU.
ZONING ISBA TWENTY FIVE DASH
ZERO ZERO THREE TWO FIVE TWO
ZERO SAUL BOULEVARD IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE OF ONE
HUNDRED SEVENTY NINE POINT SIX
SQUARE FEET FROM SECTION FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX D
ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
IF GRANTED, THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW A TWO STOREY DETACHED
GRID GARAGE WITH AN EIGHTY TWO
AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT
ABOVE TO EXCEED THE ALLOWABLE
THIRTY FIVE PERCENT REAR OPEN
SPACE REQUIREMENT FOR ACCESSORY
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWED BUILDING
FOOTPRINT IN THE REAR OPEN
SPACE ON THIS CORNER LOT IS TWO
HUNDRED FORTY ONE SQUARE FEET.
THE PROPOSED TWO STOREY GARAGE
YOU WILL HAVE A FOOTPRINT
OF FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY POINT
SIX SQUARE FEET IN THE REAR
OPEN SPACE.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION OF SUPPORT
GROUP.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA.
NO PATTY NO DREW NO I ALSO VOTE
NO DARMA NO
JULIE NO DAVE.
>> DAVE ALREADY KNOW THE
REQUEST IS DENIED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
FIVE SIX ZERO ONE MARY CAULKED
JOHN
PLEASE EXPRESS SOME
PATIENCE WITH ME AND MY BRIEF
EXPLANATION.
THIS IS SEVEN PROPERTIES BUT
IT'S BASICALLY ONE PROJECT.
ALL SEVEN PROPERTIES ARE OWNED
BY ONE OWNER.
THEY'RE ASKING FOR VERY SIMILAR
VARIANCE REQUESTS AND ALL
OF THEM A COUPLE OF MINOR
DIFFERENT REQUESTS AND I WILL
GO OVER THOSE BUT WE'RE GOING
TO JUST GO THROUGH ONE
PRESENTATION AND THEN I'LL READ
EACH ONE SEPARATELY AND THEN
YOU CAN VOTE ON THEM
SEPARATELY.
BUT I'M NOT GOING TO DO SEVEN
SLIDE PRESENTATIONS.
IT'S ALL THE SAME.
SO BEAR WITH ME WHILE WE GO
THROUGH SIX ON ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
ZERO ZERO TO FIVE FURTHER
DRESSED IS SIX AND ONE MARY
COURT DAVID LEWIS REPRESENTING
THE PROPERTY OWNER IS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF EIGHTEENTH FROM SECTION
TABLE EXCUSE ME FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING UNIT TO BE
LOCATED TWELVE FEET FROM THE
REAR FLAT LINE.
THE MINIMUM REQUIRED REALLY ARE
SET BACK FOR THE AFTER C
DISTRICT IS THIRTY FEET THE TWO
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
EIGHT SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT PLOT REQUIREMENT
FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE PROPERTY ZONED ARE FOR C
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT THE NONCONFORMING LOT
IS PERMITTED TO USE THE R-1 SEE
DISTRICT DIMENSIONS PER SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO POINT
THREE NONCONFORMING LOT OF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE EAST SIDE OF MARY
STREET.
HOOVER STREET IS TO THE SOUTH
AND STATE STREET TO THE EAST
OF MARY COURT.
THE HOME WAS BUILT AS PART
OF AN EIGHT GROUP EIGHT
PROPERTY GROUP OF HOMES.
THE HOMES WERE CONSTRUCTED IN
APPROXIMATELY NINETEEN 01.
THE SUBJECT RESIDENCE IS
APPROXIMATELY ONE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE.
A PRIVATE DRIVE SEPARATES THE
FOUR HOMES TO THE NORTH AND AND
SOUTH AND SEES ME A PRIVATE
DRIVE SEPARATE FOR HOMES TO THE
NORTH AND FOUR HOMES TO THE
SOUTH.
THE OWNER ALSO OWNS SIX OH
THREE SIX OH FOUR SIX FIVE SIX
07 AND 08.
MARY CAUGHT THE PROPERTY OWNER
PLANS ON DEMOLISHING ALL THE
STRUCTURES AS I PREVIOUSLY SAID
AND BUILDING A NEW THREE STOREY
SIX BEDROOM SINGLE FAMILY
RENTAL HOUSE.
THE NEW RESIDENCE AT SIX ONE
MARY WILL HAVE A KITCHEN AND
LIVING AREA ON THE FIRST FLOOR
AND THREE BEDROOMS ON EACH
OF THE SECOND AND THIRD FLOORS
.
THE HOMES WILL HAVE A BASEMENT
THAT WILL NOT BE CONVERTED INTO
HABITABLE SPACE.
IF YOU'LL TURN YOUR ATTENTION
TO THE MONITORS YOU'LL SEE THE
ZONING MAP BEFORE YOU ITS
HIGHLIGHT THE SUBJECT PROPERTY
IS HIGHLIGHTED IN BLUE AND THEN
DIRECTLY TO THE EAST THE OTHER
FOUR PROPERTIES AND THEN TO THE
SOUTH THE OTHER THE OTHER FOUR
AND THIS HOUSE RIGHT HERE THIS
PROPERTY RIGHT HERE WHICH IS I
BELIEVE IT'S SIX TO MARRY COURT
IS NOT PART OF TONIGHT'S
PROPOSAL.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE AREA
SHOWING SURROUNDING PROPERTIES
AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND THE
NEXT SLIDE IS THE ZOOMED IN
AERIAL PHOTO OF THE SUBJECT
PROPERTIES THE THE FOUR TO THE
NORTH AND THREE TO THE SOUTH.
AND LIKE I SAID, IT'S GOT A
PRIVATE DRIVE THAT GOES DOWN
THE CENTER.
YOU DO HAVE A DRIVE TO THE
NORTH THAT'S A SHARED DRIVEWAY
WITH THIS NINE TWENTY ONE MARY
STREET PROPERTY AND THERE'S
SOME PARKING BACK HERE BUT MOST
OF IT IS ON STREET PARKING.
YOU DO HAVE A ALLEYWAY ON THE
EAST SIDE OF THIS ALL THESE
PROPERTIES THAT RUNS NORTH AND
SOUTH.
>> THE NEXT SLIDE IS THE SURVEY
THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT AND YOU SEE THAT SIX
OR TWO HAS BEEN EXCLUDED FROM
THE SURVEY AND YOU SEE THE
SEVEN PROPERTIES AND THEIR
CURRENT CONDITIONS AND HOW THEY
ARE SITUATED.
MOSTLY THEY'RE ALL GOING TO BE
THE REAR YARD SET BACKS AND THE
TWO HERE ON THE EAST ARE GOING
TO NEED SIDE YARD SAT BACK
VARIANCES.
THE NEXT SLIDE SHOWS THE SIX
ONE MARY COURT AND THIS IS THE
EXISTING TWO STORY HOME WHICH
IS TO BE DEMOLISHED NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS A THE BASEMENT I BELIEVE
THIS IS AND THE NEXT SLIDE
SHOWS THE PROPOSED FIRST FLOOR
OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE TO BE
BUILT AND THEN THE SECOND FLOOR
AND THE THIRD FLOOR AND YOU SEE
THE SIX BEDROOM HOME.
THESE ARE THE ELEVATIONS THAT
ARE WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT AND WHAT THE PROPOSED
HOMES WILL BE ALL LOOK LIKE.
I THINK THEY'RE ALL GOING TO BE
BUILT TO ALMOST THE EXACT SAME
SPECIFICATIONS ARE ALL GOING TO
LOOK THE SAME.
I ONLY HAVE ONE SET
OF ELEVATION DRAWINGS SO
EVERYONE IS GOING TO BE THE
SAME AND THE ARCHITECT CAN
DELVE INTO THAT A LITTLE BIT AS
WELL.
>> YOU SEE THE SIDE PROFILE
OF THESE HOMES AND THIS IS THE
REAR AND THAT'S THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE PROPOSED HOMES.
YOU SEE THE GABLE ROOF WITH A
DORMER IN THE CENTER.
THESE ARE THE PHOTOS THAT I
TOOK AT MY INSPECTION.
YOU SEE THE PRIVATE DRIVE DOWN
THE CENTER SEPER IN THE TWO
ROWS OF HOUSES AND THIS IS SIX
ON ONE AND SIX OH THREE MARY
COURT THIS IS SIX OH FIVE MARY
COURT THIS IS SIX OH SEVEN MARY
COURT.
THIS IS ON THE OTHER SIDE THE
SOUTH SIDE.
THIS IS SIX OH FOUR MARY COURT
SIX SIX MARY COURT AND SIX
EIGHT MARY COURT.
THIS IS THE ALLEY THAT I JUST
DISCUSSED THAT RUNS TO THE EAST
OF THESE PROPERTIES AND THIS IS
THE LOOKING BACK TOWARDS THE
PROPERTIES ON THE OTHER FROM
THE ALLEY AND THIS IS LOOKING
DOWN THE ALLEY AT SIX OH EIGHT
SOME PARKING BETWEEN THE
BUILDINGS MORE THE SAME BEHIND
SIX OR EIGHT AND THAT'S ALL THE
PHOTOS I HAVE FOR YOU AND I CAN
TAKE ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
HAVE AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU, JOHN.
QUESTIONS FOR STAFF NO
QUESTIONS.
ALL RIGHT.
OH, GO AHEAD, DEBRA.
SORRY.
I GUESS I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND BECAUSE THESE
PROPERTIES ARE BEING CONSIDERED
TOGETHER IN WAYS WE CAN BE
SORRY IS THE VARIANCE ACROSS
ALL OF THEM ARE FOR EACH
INDIVIDUAL.
EACH INDIVIDUAL LOT WILL
REQUIRE A SEPARATE VARIANCE AND
A NEW STRUCTURE WILL BE PLACED
TO REPLACE EACH STRUCTURE.
THEY'RE GOING TO DEMOLISH EACH
STRUCTURE AND REPLACE IT WITH
ONE SO THEIR EXISTING FOUR
BEDROOM HOMES I BELIEVE RIGHT
NOW SINGLE FAMILY AND THIS
COULD BE REPLACED WITH A SINGLE
FAMILY THREE STOREY SIX BEDROOM
HOME.
GOTCHA.
OK, SO ONE BUT WHEN THEY TEAR
THIS DOWN THESE LOTS ARE SO
SMALL YOU KNOW THE SOME OF THEM
ARE IN NINETEEN HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET 2000 SQUARE FEET THEY
CAN'T MEET THE THAT BACK SO
ONCE YOU TEAR IT COMPLETELY
DOWN THEIR EXISTING CONFORMING
THEY CAN REMAIN BUT WHEN YOU
TEAR IT DOWN THE NEW
CONSTRUCTION HAS TO MEET.
SO THAT'S THE REQUIREMENT FOR
THE VARIOUS OTHER REGARD.
OK, THANKS JULIE.
SO THERE WAS A PROPOSAL FOR
MARY COURT IN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR.
>> RIGHT AND THAT WAS AND IS
THAT JUST DEVELOPED NOW AFTER
WITHDRAWN OK SO IF THEY DO
ALTERATIONS OR INSTRUCTIONS ON
THAT'S A CONSISTENT QUESTION
YOU KEEP ASKING ME THAT THEY
COULD THEY COULD DO A THIRD
STORY STRAIGHT UP AND YEAH THE
QUESTIONS ALL RIGHT.
>> IF THE PETITIONERS IF YOU
COULD PLEASE COME FORWARD SIGN
IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
I'LL LEAVE IT UP TO YOU IF YOU
WANT TO ADDRESS ALL OF THEM NOW
OR DO THEM ONE AT A TIME
WITH
YOUR NAME.
MR GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS BRAD WILKENSON.
MY WIFE AND I OWN THESE SEVEN
HOUSES DOWN ON MARY COURT WE
BOUGHT THOSE IN TWENTY EIGHTEEN
AND WE'RE VERY FORTUNATE TO OWN
THESE PROPERTIES AND WE JUST
WANT TO MAKE BETTER AND WE WANT
TO MAKE THEM A LITTLE BIGGER
AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE TO
DO TONIGHT IS PRESENT
APPLICATION IN PERSON.
DAVID LEWIS IS OUR ARCHITECT
AND HE'LL DO MOST OF THE
TALKING I JUST WANTED TO
EMPHASIZE A COUPLE OF POINTS ON
THIS BASICALLY WE HAVE SEVEN
FOUR BEDROOM HOUSES AND WE WANT
TO TURN THOSE INTO SEVEN SIX
BEDROOM HOUSES THEREBY
INCREASING THE DENSITY BY 50
PERCENT OR TWENTY EIGHT TO
FORTY TWO.
THEY'RE BASICALLY THE SAME
FOOTPRINTS.
THERE'S NO REDUCTION IN GREEN
SPACE OR OPEN SPACE HERE AND
WE
THINK THE ARCHITECTURE RETAINS
KIND OF THE CAMPUS BERN'S PARK
ARCHITECTURE STYLE THAT ALREADY
EXISTS IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD ALL
ALL RIGHT.
I MIGHT JUST WAIT TILL THEY'RE
ALL DONE IN THE GOING TO
RESTART THE TIME SO HE HAS A
QUESTION FOR HIM.
I SHOULD GO WITH HIM AND WHY HE
LIKE TO ASK THE OWNER IS IT OK?
>> YEAH, GO AHEAD.
SO ONE OF MY COLLEAGUES SAID
THAT THERE HAD BEEN A PUDI
REQUEST THAT HAD BEEN WITHDRAWN
AND I'M WONDERING WHAT WHAT WAS
THE REASON FOR GOING THIS ROUTE
INSTEAD OF THE POWDER ROOM?
WELL, WE GOT REJECTED ON THE
YOU GO TO THE I SAY WE GOT
REJECTED ON THE PAD THEIR TWO
REQUIREMENTS WERE IT WAS A
LITTLE DIFFERENT STRUCTURE THAN
WHAT WE'RE PROPOSING HERE A LOT
DIFFERENT STRUCTURE BUT IT WAS
REJECTED BECAUSE WE COULDN'T WE
WERE REQUIRED TO GET WRITTEN
APPROVAL FROM THE NEIGHBORS ON
THE NORTH AND THE NEIGHBOR AT
SIX.
SO TO AND AS NICE AS THOSE
FOLKS ARE AND WE TALK WITH THEM
A LOT THEY'RE WORN OUT WITH ALL
THE CONSTRUCTION GOING ON IN
ANN ARBOR AND TO THE NORTH HAS
BENJAMN STREET JUST A LOT JUST
DIRECTLY NORTH NOR THE
NEIGHBORING NORTH.
SO THE BACKYARD ON MARY STREET
9/11 MARY STREET GOT YOU HIS
NAME IS MR SHA AND AND I HAD
ASKED OUR ZONING COORDINATOR IF
YOU COULD DO AN ALTERATION TO A
NONCONFORMIST STRUCTURE AND
I'LL ASK THE ARCHITECT TO SPEAK
TO THE RATIONALE FOR GOING THIS
ROUTE AS OPPOSED TO THE
OPERATION.
THEY'RE NOT FROM STRUCTURE.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
OWNER?
OK, THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DAVID LEWIS AND
LEWIS GREEN SCREEN ARCHITECTS
AND I'M THE ARCHITECT FOR THE
PROJECT.
I WANT TO FIRST EMPHASIZE THAT
YOU KNOW THE THE OWNER OF THESE
HOME PROPERTIES LOVES THE
CHARACTER OF MARY COURT AND
OF THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS
ANYONE COULD BUILD ON THESE
SEVEN LOTS ESPECIALLY IF THEY
WERE INTERESTED COMBINING THEM
INTO ONE.
AND AND BRAD REALLY WANTS TO
KEEP THE CHARACTER OF MARY
COURT WHICH I THINK IS VERY
NICE.
THESE HOMES ARE OLD EITHER OVER
A HUNDRED YEARS OLD AND THEY'RE
,YOU KNOW, NOT IN GREAT
CONDITION.
BRAD DOES NOT OWN THEM FOR THAT
LONG AND I THINK THE PREVIOUS
OWNER DID NOT NECESSARILY TAKE
GOOD CARE OF THEM AS THEY COULD
HAVE.
SO THE QUALITY OF CONSTRUCTION,
THE QUALITY OF THE HOUSE WILL
BE SIGNIFICANTLY SUPERIOR IF
IT'S NEW CONSTRUCTION ON THE
BASEMENT'S WILL BE NICER.
THEY'LL BE DRIER.
YOU KNOW THE THERMAL
PERFORMANCE OF THE ENVELOPE
WILL BE SIGNIFICANTLY BETTER.
YOU KNOW THE CARBON FOOTPRINT
OF THE HOMES WILL BE
SIGNIFICANTLY REDUCED.
IT'S JUST YOU KNOW THAT THE
QUALITY OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTION
IS GOING TO BE FAR SUPERIOR AND
IT'S YOU KNOW, IT'S A
WORTHWHILE THING I THINK TO DO
.
YOU KNOW, WE ALL LOVE OLD
HOUSES BUT SOMETIMES IT'S JUST
IT'S TIME FOR OLD HOUSES
SOMETIMES TO GET TORN DOWN AND
NEW ONES BUILT.
AND AS JOHN MENTIONED, WE'RE
WE'RE BASICALLY BUILDING NEW
HOUSES MORE OR LESS IN THE SAME
SPOT IS WHERE THE EXISTING
HOMES ARE NOW THE GIVEN THE
SETBACKS YOU KNOW, THE THE
BUILD WILL AIR IN THESE LOTS IS
TINY.
I MEAN SOME OF THEM LIKE 11
FEET DEEP NEED TO BUILD A HOUSE
THAT'S YOU KNOW, 20 FEET BY 11
FEET AND THAT'S ALL YOU CAN DO.
SO IT'S A VERY, VERY YARD
VARIANCE VARIANCES REQUIRED.
I'VE PURPOSELY KIND
OF RELOCATED ALL THE HOUSES A
LITTLE BIT WHEN IT COMES TO THE
SIDE YARDS RIGHT NOW MOST
OF THESE HOUSES DON'T HAVE SIDE
YARDS THAT MEET CURRENT ZONING
PERMITS WHERE ONCE WE BUILD NEW
ONES IN THE NEW PROPOSED
LOCATIONS ALL THE HOUSES EXCEPT
FOR THE TWO ALONG THE ALLEY
WILL HAVE THE MINIMUM REQUIRED
SIDE YARD SET BACKS.
SO THE ONLY SETBACK WE'RE
ASKING FOR IS FOR FOUR OF THE
SEVEN HOUSES JUST A BE YARD AND
THE TWO THAT WE'RE ASKING FOR
SOCIETY ARE VARIANTS ARE THE
TWO ALONG THE ALLEY AND THE
SIDE YARD REDUCTION IS LONG
ALLEY SO IT'S NOT LIKE WE'RE
GOING CLOSER TO ANOTHER HOUSE,
IT'S JUST GOING CLOSER TO AN
ALLEY SO WE'RE NOT REALLY
IMPACTING ANYONE ELSE AT ALL
WITH OUR REDUCED SIDE YARD AND
I THINK THAT COVERS ALL THE
MAIN POINTS I WANTED TO BRING
UP.
I THINK I THINK BRAD'S DESIRE
TO MAINTAIN THE CHARACTER
OF MARY'S COURT IS ADMIRABLE
AND I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
YOU KNOW, AS MUCH AS IT'S AS
EVERYBODY LIKES IT NOW, I THINK
IT'LL STILL BE A VERY ENJOYABLE
SPACE TO BE IN AND QUESTIONS
OH, DID YOU WANT TO ADDRESS THE
SURE.
AND I HAD ONE OTHER SIMPLE
QUESTION.
OK, THE OTHER QUESTION OTHER
THAN I CAN TELL RIGHT NOW THE
REASON DID NOT DO THE
ALTERATION IS YOU MOVE THE LOT
LINES A LITTLE BIT AND YOU'RE
ALSO HEARING FROM THE
FOUNDATION UP.
I HAVE PERSONAL EXPERIENCE AS I
DO AND A LOT OF HOMES IN THESE
AREAS SINCE I GREW UP IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD THOSE BASEMENTS
ARE WET.
SO WHEN YOU SAY RESOLVE SOME
OF THE EXTERNAL ENVELOPE OF THE
STRUCTURES I UNDERSTAND WHAT
YOU'RE SPEAKING TO BY PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE.
THE OTHER QUESTION I HAD SO
YOU'VE GOT SEVEN YOU'RE
PROPOSING SEVEN INDIVIDUAL
STRUCTURES.
WOULD THAT BE A PHASED
DEVELOPMENT WHERE YOU DO ONE AT
A TIME OR WOULD YOU PULL THEM
ALL DOWN AND DO THE BUILDING
ALL SIMULTANEOUSLY?
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT'S BEEN
THAT'S PROBABLY A BETTER
QUESTION FOR BRAD.
I KNOW WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
POSSIBLY DO ALL THE SAME TIME
OR POSSIBLY DOING YOU KNOW,
MAYBE ALL THE ONES ON THE NORTH
SIDE AT ONCE AND THEN THE SOUTH
SIDE BY PHASING IT.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT WOULD BE
PHASED LIKE OVER THE YEARS.
I THINK IT WOULD BE YOU KNOW,
KIND OF ONE RIGHT AFTER THE
OTHER IS MY GUESS.
I DON'T WE WOULD DEFINITELY WE
WOULD WE WOULD PREFER TO DO
THEM ALL AT ONCE AND GET THEM
DONE IN ONE YEAR.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
ARCHITECT?
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
IF THERE'S ANYONE FROM THE
PUBLIC WHO WISHES TO SPEAK ON
THIS PETITION NOW IS YOUR
CHANCE.
PLEASE COME FORWARD.
SINAN'S DAKEN IF YOU JUST WANT
TO ALL GO NOW AND WE'LL JUST
APPLY THOSE COMMENTS ACROSS THE
BOARD.
BUT IF YOU MAYBE STATE IN YOUR
COMMENTS WHICH PROPERTY YOU'RE
SPEAKING TO SPECIFICALLY THAT
WOULD BE HELPFUL.
YES, YOU'LL HAVE THREE THREE
MINUTES EACH.
THANK YOU.
AND WRITE YOUR NAME DOWN
INDECOROUS
THAT EVENING.
MY NAME IS DALIA GOTLIEB AND
I'M A CURRENT RESIDENT OF SIX
OR EIGHT MARRIED COURT.
>> I.
I AM WRITING TO EXPRESS MY
OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSAL TO
THEIR PROPOSAL BY DAVID LEWIS
ON BEHALF OF THE PROPERTY
OWNERS TO DEMOLISH THE EXISTING
HOMES MARY COURT FIRST REMOVING
THESE HOMES UNDERMINES HOUSING
AFFORDABILITY AND TENANT
STABILITY AND ARBOR'S FAIR
HOUSING PRINCIPLES AND ITS
PROVISIONS FOR RELOCATION AND
AN ASSISTANT WHEN LEASES AREN'T
RENEWED EXIST PRECISELY TO
PREVENT DISPLACED AND ENSURE
EQUITABLE HOUSING ACCESS
ALLOWING THIS DEMOLITION TO
PROCEED COULD SET A TROUBLING
PRECEDENT AND EFFECTIVELY
BYPASS THOSE PROTECTIONS.
THE PLAN WOULD CONTRIBUTE TO
OVERCROWDING AND OVERPOPULATION
IN AN AREA ALREADY STRUGGLING
WITH LIMITED SPACE AND
RESOURCES RATHER THAN PROVING
LIMITED CAN LIVING CONDITIONS
AS OPPOSED RISK WORSENING THEM
FOR FUTURE RESIDENTS.
THIRD, THE PROJECT RISKS
EXACERBATING PARKING CONGESTION
WHICH IS ALREADY A KNOWN ISSUE
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD INCREASED
DENSITY WITHOUT APPROPRIATE
INFRASTRUCTURE PLANNING WILL
ONLY MAKE THE SITUATION WORSE
FOR BOTH CURRENT RESIDENTS AND
THE SURROUNDING COMMUNITY FOR
ITS HAD WE KNOWN THERE WERE ANY
POSSIBILITY THAT WE WOULD NOT
BE ABLE TO REMAIN IN OUR HOMES
FOR THE DURATION OF OUR TWO
YEARS IN LAW SCHOOL MY
ROOMMATES AND I WOULD HAVE
SOUGHT OTHER HOUSING OPTIONS.
WE FULLY INTEND TO RENEW OUR
LEASE AND WILL FACE SIGNIFICANT
HARDSHIP IF WE ALONG OTHER
STUDENTS ON MARY COURT ARE
FORCED TO SECURE NEW HOUSING AT
THE SAME TIME.
FINALLY, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE HUMAN COSTS,
THE STRESS OF LOSING HOUSING
HOUSING OFTEN WITH LIMITED
NOTICE INFLICTS REAL EMOTIONAL
AND ACADEMIC HARM ON THE
STUDENTS WHO RELY ON MARY COURT
AS A STABLE HOME DISRUPTION
OF COMMUNITY TIES AND SECURITY
CAN HAVE LASTING CONSEQUENCES
THAT GO BEYOND HOUSING ALONE.
FOR THESE REASONS I URGE THE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION TO
REJECT THIS DEMOLITION PROPOSAL
AND TO PRESERVE THE CHARACTER
AFFORDABILITY AND LIVABILITY
OF MARY COURT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
I'M WAS THERE AND I LIVE AT SIX
WAIT MARY COURT AS WELL.
I'M A SECOND YEAR LAW STUDENT.
I JUST MOVED INTO COURT AND I
ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT BUT I JUST
WANTED TO HIGHLIGHT THAT THIS
IS THEY SPOKE OF THIS AS A LOW
DENSITY INCREASE BUT THEN AT
THE SAME TIME TALKED ABOUT HOW
THERE WOULD BE ALMOST A FIFTY
PERCENT INCREASE IN RESIDENTS
AND THIS REALLY DOESN'T
PRESERVE THE CHARACTER OF MARY
COURT FIRST WITH THAT AMOUNT
OF PEOPLE I FEEL LIKE THE MARY
COURT ALREADY HAS TOO MANY
PEOPLE AND WE'RE NOT GOING TO
BE ABLE TO LIVE THE WAY THAT WE
CURRENTLY DO.
>> FOR INSTANCE, WE HAVE
BARBECUES OUTSIDE, WE DO OTHER
STUFF OUTSIDE.
WE ALREADY CAN'T ALL FIT.
SO I REALLY DON'T THINK THAT
THE COURT CAN FIT SIX BEDROOM
HOMES AS OPPOSED TO FOUR
BEDROOM HOMES NOT TO MENTION
THE OTHER BUILDINGS IN THE
AREA.
THERE'S THE LARGE BUILDING
PACKARD AND DIVISION THE LARGE
DORMS I DON'T KNOW THE EXACT
STREET BUT KIND OF CLOSER TO
THE STADIUM THE WHOLE AREA IS
JUST GETTING MORE, MORE AND
MORE PEOPLE AND RATHER THAN
CONTINUING TO OVERPOPULATE THIS
PLACE, MAYBE WAIT A FEW YEARS,
SEE HOW IT GOES BEFORE RUSHING
INTO THINGS ESPECIALLY AS IT
RELATES TO PARKING ON MARY
COURT.
THEY SAID THAT THEIR STREET
PARKING THIS AREA REALLY DOES
NOT HAVE A LOT OF STREET
PARKING.
EVERY SINGLE OTHER HOUSE AROUND
THERE ALSO HAS EIGHT BEDROOMS,
SIX BEDROOMS AND MAYBE ONE
PARKING SPOT OUTSIDE.
>> MARY COURT CURRENTLY HAS ONE
PARKING SPOT PER HOUSE.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW THEY'RE
GOING TO CHANGE THE LOT LINES
HERE AND STILL PRESERVE THAT
ONE PARKING SPOT.
BUT I KNOW FOR ME I'M LUCKY TO
HAVE AMAZING ROOMMATES WHO WILL
TAKE TRADER JOE'S BUT IF I
WANTED TO GO BY BUS IT WOULD
TAKE THIRTY FIVE MINUTES WAY.
SO IF YOU HAVE SIX PEOPLE IN
ONE HOME WITH ONE PARKING SPOT
IT'S JUST BECOMES REALLY NOT
VERY FEASIBLE.
AND I KNOW LIKE THESE OTHER
STUDENTS I WANT TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF EVERYTHING THIS
UNIVERSITY HAS TO OFFER.
I DON'T WANT TO BE SPENDING TWO
HOURS OF MY DAY JUST TRYING TO
GO GET GROCERIES BECAUSE WE
CAN'T FIT MORE THAN ONE CAR
HERE.
I THINK LASTLY IT'S IMPORTANT
TO NOTE THAT THIS IS ONE OF THE
FEW AREAS IN ANN ARBOR THAT'S
STILL AROUND WHERE THERE'S A
BUNCH OF DIFFERENT FOUR BEDROOM
HOMES AND THERE'S EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND GRAD STUDENTS ON THIS
CAMPUS BUT MOST OF THE HOUSING
IS LIKE SIX BEDROOM, EIGHT
BEDROOM SO IT MOSTLY GOES TO
UNDERGRADS.
TWENTY FIVE YEAR OLDS DON'T
USUALLY WANT TO LIVE IN THOSE
HOMES.
SO I LOVE LIVING WITH ALL THESE
UNDERGRADS AND GETTING TO MEET
THEM AND HAVE BUILDING THAT
COMMUNITY.
AND IF YOU TOOK THIS AWAY BY
PUTTING IN SIX BEDROOMS, I
THINK YOU WOULD RUIN IT FOR
GRAD STUDENTS AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> HI, MY NAME IS JACLYN
RENDERMAN.
I'M ALSO A RESIDENT IN SIX TO
EIGHT AMERICORPS.
I'M ALSO A SECOND YEAR LAW
STUDENT.
I'LL KEEP THIS BRIEF I SECOND
WHAT THOSE BEFORE ME HAVE SAID
IN TERMS OF APPEALING THIS FOR
THE SAME REASONS AND IF YOU
WERE TO APPROVE A PERMIT I
WOULD RESPECTFULLY REQUEST THAT
ANY ANY PLANS DEMOLITION THE
HOUSES ON MARY BE APPROVED THE
SUMMER FALL OF TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHT AS MOST OF THE STUDENTS
WILL HAVE PRETTY MUCH ALL THE
STUDENTS ON THAT COURT WILL
HAVE GRADUATED BY THEN AS MY
FRIENDS THAT I LIVE WITH
MENTIONED IT'S REALLY HARD TO
FIND HOUSING IN ANN HARBOR
ESPECIALLY AFFORDABLE HOUSING
ESPECIALLY FOR US RIGHT BY THE
LAW SCHOOL FOR THEM BY CENTRAL
CAMPUS AND GETTING TO LIVE
RIGHT BY THE GYM LIKE JUST KIND
OF IN CAMPUS BUT STILL BE ABLE
TO AFFORD IT IS SUCH A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY.
THE PEOPLE I KNOW THEY'RE
PAYING THE SAME THAT WE ARE
LIVE AT LEAST A MILE AWAY AND
I'LL HAVE CARS.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT MOST
OF US DON'T HAVE SO REALLY THIS
IS ABOUT TAKING AWAY HOUSING
FROM STUDENTS AND I JUST DON'T
THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO
DEMOLISH HOUSES THAT PEOPLE ARE
LIVING AND WE'RE PLANNING TO
LIVE IN FOR MULTIPLE YEARS
BECAUSE WHEN WE SIGN THE LEASES
THIS WASN'T ON THE TABLE FOR US
AND YEAH, THAT'S REALLY ALL I
WANTED TO SAY.
>> BUT THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
DON'T OR I'M THE LAST LOST
RIGHT.
HELLO MY NAME IS FRANKIE.
I'M ORIGINALLY FROM SEATTLE.
I'M ALSO THE DAUGHTER OF A CITY
PLANNER AND I STUDIED URBAN
GEOGRAPHY IN COLLEGE AND I
MENTION THAT BECAUSE EVERY
SINGLE THING I LEARNED
UNDERGRAD ABOUT GOOD PUBLIC
SPACE IS PRESENT IN COURT.
THERE'S A PORCH CULTURE AS ODD
AS THAT SOUNDS FACILITATED BY
THE FACT THAT DESPITE THE CAR
PRESIDENT SOME OF THE PHOTOS
THAT YOU SEEN, NOBODY TYPICALLY
PARKS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
COURT.
THIS ISN'T BECAUSE WE HAVE TONS
OF PARKING OPTIONS ELSEWHERE AS
A LOT OF US HAVE MENTIONED.
IT WILL CONTINUE TO MENTION IN
FACT THE PHOTOS OF THE PARKING
BEHIND SIX AWAY THAT ISN'T
ACCESSIBLE TO US.
THAT BELONGS TO THE PROPERTY
RIGHT BEHIND US.
WE DON'T PARK IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE COURT BECAUSE WE WANT IT
TO BE A THIRD SPACE.
WE WANT IT TO BE A PLACE WHERE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS CAN COME
TOGETHER.
WE WANT TO BE A PLACE AS HAS
BEEN INDICATED WHERE STUDENTS
WHO ARE PURSUING DIFFERENT
COURSES OF STUDY CAN BUILD
COMMUNITY.
>> I MEAN I REMEMBER WHEN WHEN
WE THE LAW STUDENTS KIND
OF FIRST THE FIRST FEW WEEKS WE
MOVED AND HOW MANY OF THE YOUNG
PEOPLE YOU SEE IN FRONT OF YOU
TODAY CAME TO US AND SAID HEY,
IF WE EVER BEING TOO LOUD LET
US KNOW WE WANT YOU TO BE ABLE
TO STUDY.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU.
I WOULD NEVER HAVE DONE THAT IN
UNDERGRAD THIS THIS LIKE THIS
AREA THIS COMMUNITY IS REALLY,
REALLY SPECIAL TO THE PEOPLE
THAT LIVE THERE.
IT IS REALLY UNIQUE COMPARED TO
ANYTHING ELSE I'VE SEEN IN ANN
ARBOR.
ONE OF MY FAVORITE THINGS ABOUT
ANN ARBOR THAT I'VE DISCOVERED
SINCE LIVING HERE IS THE USE
OF ALLEYS TO SEQUESTER PARKING
AWAY FROM PUBLIC SPACE.
I THINK THAT'S REALLY COOL.
I'VE NEVER LIVED IN A PLACE
LIKE THAT AND WHEN I HEAR ABOUT
THESE DEVELOPMENTS I UNDERSTAND
THAT THERE IS A NEED FOR MORE
HOUSING.
I GET THAT THAT'S A PROBLEM A
LOT OF PLACES.
BUT WHAT'S REALLY THE POINT
OF ADDING A FEW MORE BEDROOMS
IF IT DOES COME AT THE COST
OF THE CHARACTER OF THE STREET
?
I DO NOT SEE ANY OTHER WAY FOR
THIS PLAN TO GO FORWARD THAT
DOESN'T INVOLVE CARS ENDING UP
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET AND
THAT THIRD SPACE BEING
DESTROYED.
IT'S JUST NOT PRACTICAL.
IT'S LIKE WE'RE I MEAN WE'RE
GOING TO HARP ON PARKING A LOT
BUT LIKE THAT'S IT'S A BIG
ISSUE AND THERE'S THE PORCH
CULTURE THAT I DESCRIBE IS
PARTIALLY BASED ON THE FACT
THAT WE ALL TAKE GREAT PRIDE IN
LIVING HERE.
OUR PORCHES ARE DECORATED,
WE'RE TIDY, WE'RE RESPECTFUL.
I CAN COUNT ON ONE HAND THE
NUMBER OF TIMES I'VE SEEN
LITTER ON THE STREET WHICH IS
KIND OF CRAZY AND LIKE THE HIGH
UNDERGRAD AREA, PEOPLE TAKE A
LOT OF PRIDE IN LIVING HERE.
I MEAN WE'RE TENANTS WE DO NOT
HAVE THE SAME PROPERTY
INTERESTS IN THIS PROPERTY AS
THE OWNERS DO AND WE RESPECT
THAT AND WE UNDERSTAND IT.
BUT I HOPE IT SHOWS THIS BOARD
HOW IMPORTANT THIS SPACE REALLY
IS BECAUSE WE'RE NOT JUST
ASKING YOU TO PRESERVE IT FOR
US.
WE'RE ASKING YOU TO PRESERVE IT
FOR ALL THE STUDENTS THAT ARE
LOOKING FOR A COMMUNITY LIKE
THIS.
BUT THEY SPEND THEIR
UNDERGRADUATE YEARS HERE, THEN
THIS NEW CONSTRUCTION WOULD NOT
SIGNIFICANTLY RESTORE THE CITY
OF SKIP TO THE END.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M ENDING WITH A QUOTE FROM
ONE OF MY FAVORITE URBAN PEOPLE
AND I ASSUME SOME OF YOURS JANE
JACOBS WHO SAID LOUDLY AND
PURPOSEFUL AND RANDOM AS THEY
MAY APPEAR, SIDEWALK CONTACTS
ARE THE SMALL CHANGE FROM WHICH
A CITY'S WEALTH OF PUBLIC LIFE
MAY GROW.
I KNOW THIS IS NOT THE TYPE
OF PUBLIC SPACE THAT SHE WAS
TALKING ABOUT AT ALL, BUT THE
PRINCIPLE STILL RINGS TRUE TO
ALLOW CONSTRUCTION WOULD
DESTROY THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
MARY COURT TO REMAIN A
GATHERING PLACE FOR STUDENTS
YEARNING FOR HUMAN CONNECTION
AND INCREASINGLY INDIVIDUALIZED
WORLD AND CITY.
THANKS.
THANK YOU FOR WRITING MY NAME
DOWN.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO SAY AS
SOMEONE WHO RECENTLY MOVED IN
THE CONSTRUCTION IN ANN ARBOR
RIGHT NOW IS CURRENTLY JUST
UNIMAGINABLE AND AWFUL AND
ESPECIALLY ON MARINE CORPS BY
THE GYM WHEREVER YOU'RE GOING
IT TAKES SUCH AN UNBELIEVABLY
LONG TIME TO GET AROUND
ANYWHERE AND A PROJECT LIKE
THIS WILL JUST EXACERBATE IT TO
AN EXTREME DEGREE.
I THINK EVEN IF YOU'RE LOOKING
AT THE CONSTRUCTION ON STATE
STREET, IF YOU'RE LOOKING ON
THE CONSTRUCTION RIGHT BY I
THINK DOING THIS PROJECT RIGHT
NOW JUST DOES NOT MAKE ANY
SENSE AT ALL.
I ALSO BRIEFLY JUST WANT TO
TALK ABOUT ADDING AN ADDITIONAL
FLOOR WHEN YOU'RE THINKING
ABOUT SIX PEOPLE LIVING IN A
HOUSE WHEN THEY'RE ALL AROUND
THE SIMILAR AGE THAT IS VERY,
VERY DIFFICULT TO DO AND IT'S
VERY ESPECIALLY DIFFICULT AS
SOMEONE SAID BEFORE FOR GRAD
STUDENTS I'M FROM NEW YORK.
I'M USED TO PEOPLE TRYING TO
CROWD TO FIT AS MANY PEOPLE AS
I CAN INTO ONE LOCATION AND I
UNDERSTAND HOW PEOPLE WANT
MORE.
THEY KIND OF WELL, IT'S AN
ECONOMIC INCENTIVE.
THEY WANT MORE PEOPLE TO BE
ABLE TO RENT OUT TO.
BUT IN THE LONG TERM IT ENDS UP
REALLY HURTING THE TENANTS.
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH ROOM TO EVEN
GO AROUND THE HOUSE.
PARKING WAS ALREADY TALKED
ABOUT BUT THIS IS JUST A KIND
OF PROJECT THAT WOULD REALLY
ONLY BENEFIT THE OWNER OF THE
PROPERTY AND WOULD BE A
DETRIMENT TO BASICALLY EVERY
SINGLE PERSON THAT WILL LIVE
THERE.
I HAVE A LOT PEOPLE I KNOW THAT
LIVE IN THESE SEVEN BEDROOM
HOUSES AND IT'S INCREDIBLY
CHALLENGING IN ADDITION TO THE
FIGHTING, ALL OF THAT KIND
OF THING THAT HAPPENS.
IT'S JUST IT'S NOT AN ENJOYABLE
EXPERIENCE AND YOU WANT HOUSING
TO BE KIND OF SOMETHING THAT
YOU COME HOME TO YOUR ALLOWED
TO RELAX, YOU'RE ALLOWED TO DO
WHATEVER AND THAT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT WHEN YOU'RE HAVING
SIX OTHER PEOPLE RUNNING AROUND
THE HOUSE TRYING IT AND THAT
DOESN'T EVEN COUNT PEOPLE WHO
HAVE OTHER STAYING OVER WITH
THEIR HOUSE AND JUST LOOKING AT
THE ISSUE THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN I THINK SHOULD BE TAKEN
INTO ACCOUNT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS ARUNA MCPAUL AND I
LIVE AT SIX OH FOUR MARY COURT
.
I'M HERE TODAY WITH
REPRESENTATIVES FROM ALMOST ALL
OF THE CURRENT MARRIED COURT
TENANTS TO EXPRESS OUR STRONG
OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED
DEMOLITION OF OUR HOMES.
MARY COURT IS NOT JUST A GROUP
OF STUDENT RENTALS.
IT'S A COMMUNITY IT'S A SMALL
CLOSE KNIT COURT WHERE
NEIGHBORS ACTUALLY KNOW EACH
OTHER, WHERE PEOPLE GATHER FOR
A SEMESTER, EARLY MUSIC
FESTIVALS, TAILGATES, OTHER
EVENTS.
BEFORE I EVEN LIVED THERE I
CAME TO THOSE EVENTS AND I FELL
IN LOVE WITH THE SENSE
OF CONNECTION AND BELONGING ON
MARY RECORD FOR SO MANY
STUDENTS AMERICORPS IS WHERE
FRIENDSHIPS AND MEMORIES ARE
MADE IN REPLACING THESE HOMES
WITH NEW DEVELOPMENTS WOULD
ERASE THE CHARACTER AND
CULTURE
THAT MAKES AMERICORPS UNIQUE
BEYOND THE LOSS OF IDENTITY.
THIS PROPOSAL WOULD CAUSE REAL
HARDSHIP FOR CURRENT RESIDENTS
FINDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
ANN ARBOR ESPECIALLY AUGUST
LEASED FOR PERSON LEASES WITH
PARKING IS ALREADY NEARLY
IMPOSSIBLE, ESPECIALLY ON SUCH
SHORT NOTICE.
NONE OF US WOULD HAVE SIGNED A
LEASE ON AMERICORPS HAD WE
KNOWN ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY
OF DEMOLITION THEN MANY OF US
ARE OUT OF STATE STUDENTS
PREPARING FOR GRAD SCHOOL
APPLICATIONS THE LSAT AND BEING
FORCED TO MOVE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THAT WOULD CAUSE TREMENDOUS
ACADEMIC, EMOTIONAL AND
FINANCIAL STRAIN.
FOR ME PERSONALLY THIS WOULD BE
MY THIRD MOVE IN THREE YEARS.
LAST YEAR MY PREVIOUS APARTMENT
COLLAPSED AND I HAD TO RELOCATE
UNEXPECTEDLY.
MY FAMILY LIVES TEN HOURS AWAY
AND SO I WOULD HAVE TO MANAGE
EVERYTHING ALONE FINDING A
PLACE PAYING FOR STORAGE OVER
THE SUMMER, MOVING WITHOUT A
CAR AND I KNOW THAT THERE ARE
OTHERS ON THE COURT THAT SHARE
THE SAME SITUATION AS ME AND
THIS IS EXACTLY THE KIND
OF TENANT INSTABILITY THAT THE
CITY'S HOUSING VALUES ARE MEANT
TO PREVENT.
I KNOW THERE ARE OTHERS ON THE
COURT THAT SHARE THE SITUATION
AS WELL AND ON TOP OF THAT
THERE'S ALREADY CONSTANT
CONSTRUCTION SURROUNDING MARY
COURT.
WE DEAL WITH DAILY NOISE,
TRAFFIC DELAYS, CONGESTION AND
LIMITED ACCESS ADDING YET
ANOTHER MAJOR PROJECT HERE
WOULD MAKE THAT WORSE FOR BOTH
STUDENTS AND OTHER RESIDENTS
AROUND THE AREA.
ANN ARBOR DOESN'T NEED MORE
CONSTRUCTION THAT PUSHES OUR
EXISTING COMMUNITIES IN FAVOR
OF OVERPRICED, NICER, NEWER
HOUSING THAT STUDENTS ARE
UNLIKELY TO BE ABLE TO AFFORD
ANYWAY WHICH IS IMPORTANT DUE
TO THE LOCATION OF THE COURT
NEAR THE MSP AND CENTRAL CAMPUS
.
THE DEMOLITION OF MARY COURT IS
NOT ABOUT CREATING MORE
HOUSING.
IT'S ABOUT DISPLACING PEOPLE
WHO ALREADY LIVE THERE AND
DEPEND ON THE AFFORDABILITY AND
THE LIVABILITY OF THE COURT AND
REPLACING AFFORDABLE FUNCTIONAL
HOMES WITH EXPENSIVE UNITS THAT
30 SECONDS EXPLOIT NOT SERVE
STUDENTS.
THE MINIMAL BENEFIT PROPOSED BY
THE PROPERTY IS NOT GENUINE NOR
IS IT WORTH ALL THE ISSUES AND
DISTRESS THAT WOULD ARISE THE
DEMOLITION OF THE COURT.
SO I ASK YOU TO PLEASE REJECT
THIS DEMOLITION PROPOSAL,
PRESERVE THE CHARACTER
AFFORDABILITY AND LIVABILITY
OF MERIT COURT AND IN DOING SO
PLEASE HELP PROTECT THE
COMMUNITY VALUES THAT MAKE ANN
ARBOR SUCH A SPECIAL PLACE TO
LIVE.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU
.
>> HI MY NAME IS MARTHA PARIS.
I AM ONE THE RESIDENTS AT SIX
FOR MARY COURT.
I WANT TO COME UP HERE AND JUST
LIKE ALL OF MY FRIENDS AND
WORKMATES REJECTS THIS PROPOSED
DEMOLITION I WANTED TO MOSTLY
COME UP HERE AND DISCUSS
OVERCROWDING AND AFFORDABILITY.
THIS AREA ALREADY WASN'T MADE
FOR AS MANY PEOPLE WHO ARE
LIVING THERE EVEN AS THERE ARE
NOW REZONING IT WOULDN'T
BENEFIT THE PEOPLE WHO ACTUALLY
LIVE THERE.
IT WOULD STIFLE THEM EVEN MORE.
MARY COURT REMAINS ONE OF THE
LAST CORNERS IN ANN ARBOR THAT
ACTUALLY FEELS LIKE ANN ARBOR
AND NOT JUST AN INVESTMENT
PROJECT.
AND WHILE ANN ARBOR IS LOOKING
FOR HIGHER DENSITY IN DEEP CITY
AREAS, IT ISN'T AND IT
SHOULDN'T BE DOWN ON THE
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL STREET
SOUTH OF THE UNIVERSITY, MARY,
HUMAN SCALE DESIGN AND
HISTORICALLY OVERALL ARE PART
OF WHAT DEFINES THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OVERALL.
REPLACING IT WITH HIGHER
DENSITY UNITS WOULD UNDERMINE
IDENTITY AND AS WELL AS THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT WOULD
OBJECTIVELY DRAIN THE ALREADY
UNACCEPTABLY LIMITED PARKING
THAT EVERYONE ELSE HAS BEEN
DISCUSSING.
INCREASING HOUSING DENSITY ALSO
ISN'T JUST ABOUT HAVING MORE
BOXES TO PUT PEOPLE IN.
IF WE'RE DOING THIS FOR THE
PEOPLE ACTUALLY LIVING IN THESE
PLACES IT'S ABOUT HAVING
ACTUALLY LIVABLE SPACE WHERE
PEOPLE WHO END UP LIVING IN
THESE PLACES CAN MAINTAIN THEIR
DIGNITY.
IT'S DEHUMANIZING TO BE SHOVED
INTO A BOX ESPECIALLY THOSE AS
EXPENSIVE AS ANN ARBOR ALLOWS
THEM TO BE.
FOR ME FINDING MARY COURT AND
BEING ABLE TO LIVE HERE WAS
MORE THAN JUST LUCK.
IT WAS RELIEF PERSONALLY ONCE I
WAS FORCED OUT OF THE DORMS AS
MOST STUDENTS ARE AFTER THEIR
FRESHMAN YEAR I STRUGGLED TO
FIND AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT
DIDN'T DRAIN MY FINANCES OR PUT
ME IN A BASEMENT AND THIS WAS
ONE OF THE ONLY PLACES THAT
FELT FAIR OR HUMAN.
THERE IS NOTHING LIKE MARY
KAUTZ AND ONE OF THE ONLY OTHER
PLACES LIKE IT WAS RECENTLY
TORN DOWN AS WELL.
STUDENTS ARE BEING TAKEN
ADVANTAGE OF CONSTANTLY WHEN IT
COMES TO HOUSING PRICES AND IF
THE BUILDINGS ARE TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND REBUILT, THE
PRICES SUBJECTED ON THE
RESIDENTS WILL INEVITABLY FORCE
ME OUT OF ONE OF THE ONLY
PLACES LEFT THAT IS AFFORDABLE
AND WILL BE ABLE TO CALL A HOME
THE THOUGHT OF LOSING THAT AND
ULTIMATELY BE PRICED OUT OR
DISPLACED FOR YET ANOTHER MORE
MODERN COMPLEX FEELS WRONG NOT
JUST FOR ME BUT FOR EVERYONE
WHO HAS MADE THIS SMALL COURT
THE HOME MARINE CORPS DOESN'T
NEED TO BE REMADE.
>> IT NEEDS TO BE RESPECTED.
IT IS HISTORICAL.
IT IS OVER A HUNDRED YEARS OLD
AND THAT HAS A LOT OF VALUE.
I BACK AT HOME I'M FROM THE
EAST COAST.
I LIVE IN A HOUSE THAT IS OVER
A HUNDRED YEARS OLD AND WHILE
IT HAS ITS FLAWS ITS CHARACTER
OUTWEIGHS ANY OF THOSE.
THERE'S BEAUTY IN LEAVING
SOMETHING AS IT IS IN HONORING
THE UNIQUENESS, HISTORY, SCALE
AND CHARACTER THAT LEADS US
ALWAYS HAVE AND ACTIVELY
CONTINUE TO FIND SIGNIFICANT
VALUE IN PRESERVING IT NOT JUST
HONORS ITS RESIDENTS BUT THE
REMAINING TRADITION AND SPIRIT
OF ANN ARBOR ITSELF OVERALL,
THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AND I'M SURE WE
ALL WILL CONTINUE TO SAY JUST
THIS.
>> THANK YOU
.
HI EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS CAITLIN.
I'M CURRENT TENANT OF SIX FOOT
FOUR MARY COURT.
I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE UP TOO
MUCH OF YOUR TIME.
I THINK A LOT OF MY CLASSMATES
OVER THERE HAVE MADE SOME
REALLY GOOD POINTS ABOUT
AFFORDABILITY, PARKING AND
OVERCROWDING.
I KNOW A COUPLE OF PEOPLE HAVE
MENTIONED THAT OBTAINING
HOUSING FOR STUDENTS IS ALREADY
VERY DIFFICULT BUT I'D LIKE TO
ADD SOME CONTEXT TO THIS.
SO GENERALLY FINDING HOUSING
FOR UNDERGRADUATES AND
GRADUATES NEEDS TO START IN
SEPTEMBER BECAUSE DESPITE AND
OUR LEGISLATURE'S BEST EFFORTS
IN MAKING THE LEASE SIGNING IN
MARCH, THE WAIT LISTS FOR
SIGNING THOSE LEASE START IN
SEPTEMBER AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE SCHOOL YEAR.
SO WITH THE APPROVAL OF THIS
PROJECT THIS WOULD DISPLACE ALL
OF THESE LOVELY FACES SITTING
NEXT TO ME AS WELL OF AS WELL
AS MANY MORE THAT WE'RE NOT
ABLE TO SHOW UP TONIGHT OR
WE'RE NOT ABLE TO BE HERE SO
BECAUSE IT'S LATE
OCTOBER ALREADY WE WOULD BE
VERY FAR DOWN ON THIS WAITLIST
FORCING US TO PROBABLY NOT FIND
HOUSING IN A HOUSE SOUTH
OF CAMPUS BUT INSTEAD RESIDE IN
ONE OF THE VERY OVERPRICED HIGH
RISES THAT CAN RANGE FROM
UPWARDS OF FIFTEEN HUNDRED
DOLLARS A MONTH FOR RENT.
ADDITIONALLY, DEMOLISHING THESE
HOUSES WOULD TAKE AWAY SEVEN
HOMES AND THEREFORE TWENTY
EIGHT SPOTS FOR OTHER STUDENTS
THAT ALSO NEED THESE
AFFORDABILITY.
THESE AFFORDABLE PRICES AND
RENT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME
CONSIDERATION.
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS ALITY I'M A
RESIDENT A SIX THREE MARINE
CORPS AND I'M ALSO GOING TO
KEEP IT BRIEF BECAUSE EVERYONE
HAS MOSTLY SAID WHAT I WANTED
TO SAY BUT JUST TO ADD ON TO
THAT AND I THINK THAT THE
PROPOSED PLAN IS GOOD IN THEORY
IN ADDING MORE HOUSING IN THIS
AREA BUT UNFORTUNATELY IT'S
JUST NOT REALISTIC FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE EVERYONE HAS
MENTIONED, PARKING IS ALREADY
INSANE.
>> WE LIKE ANY MORE THAN ONE
PERSON IN EACH HOUSE HAS A CAR.
YOU'RE PARKING FIVE BLOCKS AWAY
JUST TO BE ABLE TO PARK YOUR
CAR FOR FREE EVEN IF YOU'RE
EVEN IF YOUR HOUSE DOES
TECHNICALLY COME WITH PARKING
SPOT.
AND I THINK OUR HOUSING MARKET
IS ALREADY OVERSATURATED WITH
COSTLY NEW DEVELOPMENTS AND THE
MAJORITY OF STUDENTS IN THESE
AREAS CAN'T AFFORD THAT KIND
OF LIVING.
SO HAVE LOSING AFFORDABLE
HOUSES AND I HAVE TO ASSUME
THAT A NEW DEVELOPMENT IN THIS
AREA WOULD COST MORE THAN WHAT
WE ARE PAYING IN RENT AND I
JUST DON'T THINK THAT IS
REALISTIC FOR STUDENT HOUSING.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO, MY NAME IS ROMAN SMITH.
I'M A RESIDENT OF 602 MARY
WHICH IS THE ONLY HOUSE IN THIS
BLOCK THAT IS NOT UNDER
CONSIDERATION UNDER
CONSIDERATION FOR DEMOLITION.
I THINK THAT DEMOLISHING THESE
SEVEN HOUSES AROUND THE HOUSE I
CURRENTLY RESIDING WOULD
COMPLETELY DESTROY THE
CHARACTER OF THIS COURT.
THERE WERE A LOT OF COMMENTS
MADE BY THE OWNER ABOUT
RETAINING THE CHARACTER AND THE
VALUE OF THIS COURT.
BUT I THINK A LOT OF THAT COMES
FROM THE HISTORICAL PRESENCE
AND VALUE OF THESE HOUSES AND
REPLACING SEVEN OF THE EIGHT
HOUSES WITH NEW MODERN HIGH
RISES WOULD COMPLETELY
IMBALANCE THE ESTHETIC OF THE
ENTIRE AREA AND IT WOULD JUST
IT IT WOULD NOT BE THE SAME AS
IT WAS.
MARY COURT IS A VERY POPULAR
AND WELL KNOWN LOCATION AMONG
STUDENTS AND NON STUDENTS IN
THIS AREA PUTTING THIS AREA
UNDER CONSTRUCTION WOULD
DESTROY A LOT OF THE HOUSES
AROUND NOT JUST IN THIS COURT.
YOU CAN SEE ON THIS PICTURE UP
HERE HOW CLOSE THE HOUSE IS ON
THE SOUTH SIDE OF MARY COURT
ARE TO THESE BOTTOM FOR THE
EVEN NUMBERED HOUSES ON MARY I
NONE OF US HERE ARE FROM THOSE
AND WE KNOW THAT
THOSE HOUSES
WOULD BE VERY LARGELY AFFECTED
BY THIS AS IT CONSUMES THEIR
LIVING AREA WITH CONSTRUCTION
NOISE AND THE DEBRIS THAT COMES
WITH IT.
A LOT OF THE PEOPLE IN THIS
AREA ALREADY HAVE TO DEAL WITH
THE CONSTRUCTION ON STATE
STREET AND THE CONSTRUCTION THE
DORM THAT COMPLETELY TAKES UP A
LOT OF OUR PARKING ON THE ROADS
AS HAS BEEN MENTIONED BY ALMOST
EVERYBODY BEFORE THIS BUT ALSO
CREATES AN UNHEALTHY
ENVIRONMENT IN THE AREA I'VE
EXPERIENCED PROBLEMS WITH
WALKING JUST TO MY HOUSE DOWN
STATE STREET GETTING DUST IN MY
EYES, IRRITATING MY EYES,
DESTROYING SOME OF MY CONTACT
LENSES EVEN I KNOW PEOPLE IN MY
HOUSE EVEN THAT HAVE A LOT
OF ALLERGIES.
THIS HAS AFFECTED THEM.
THEY'VE GOTTEN A COUGH.
THEY ARE FULL OF DUST.
IT'S JUST NOT A HEALTHY
ENVIRONMENT DESTROYING THESE
HOUSES WOULD NOT ONLY CREATE AN
EVEN MORE HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT
BUT ALSO JUST WORSEN WHAT'S
ALREADY GOING ON.
A LOT OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT
I HAVE TO SAY HAVE BEEN SAID BY
EVERYONE I THINK THEY'RE WORTH
MENTIONING AGAIN THE OWNER
MENTIONED THAT THIS PROPERTY
WOULD BE THIS CHANGE TO THE
PROPERTY WOULD A TWENTY EIGHT
TO FORTY ISH OR EVEN FIFTY
PERCENT CHANGE IN DENSITY AND
INCREASE IN DENSITY.
AS EVERYONE HAS SAID BEFORE ME
,THIS AREA IS NOT EQUIPPED IN
THE SLIGHTEST TO HANDLE THAT.
WE ARE IN SECONDS VERY LIMITED
PARKING AND MOST OF THE PEOPLE
IN THE COURT DO HAVE CARS.
THE SPACE IN THE COURT IS
ALREADY QUITE FULL AS IT IS.
IT'S A GOOD FOR WITH THE AMOUNT
OF PEOPLE THAT WE HAVE IF WE
ADDED OUGHT TO BE TWELVE
SIXTEEN MORE PEOPLE TO THIS
AREA THAT'S TOO MANY PEOPLE
IT'S OVERCROWDED JUST LIKE A
LOT OF THE OTHER PLACES IN ANN
ARBOR AND IT COMPLETELY
DEVALUES THE AMOUNT OF SPACE
EACH PERSON SHOULD BE ABLE TO
HAVE IN THEIR HOME AND
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ALSO TAKES
AWAY FROM THE OPEN HAPPY
ENVIRONMENT OF THE COURT.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ASKED TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION IF THERE'S ANYONE
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
I USE THE RIGHT HAND BUTTON
THERE.
NO CALL.
THANK YOU COURTNEY.
WE DID RECEIVE COMMUNICATIONS
AT STAR SO LETTER OF OBJECTION
FROM LAUREN KANTI, A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM JULIA
GOTLIEB LETTER OF THE LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM LILY
GOTTLIEB, A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM ABUNIMAH
PAUL A LETTER OF OPPOSITION
FROM MORGAN MCCASKEY
, A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM WILL OCCUR
NOWY APPOSITION FROM SAMANTHA
PIRIS LETTER APPOSITION FROM
CAITLIN LUTTON LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM TO MIQUE
COMPLETERS AND I APOLOGIZE IF
I'M MISPRONOUNCING ANYONE'S
NAME LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM
MARIE GILBERT LETTER OPPOSITION
FROM LADY MALABY I BELIEVE
THAT'S ALL OF THEM WITHOUT THE
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED AND WE
ARE IN DISCUSSION.
DAVE
.
I HAVE TO SAY WATCHING THESE
YOUNG PEOPLE COME UP TODAY ONE
AFTER THE OTHER BRINGS TEARS TO
MY EYES.
I'M SO PROUD TO HAVE GROWN UP
IN THIS COMMUNITY AND HAVE
LIVED AMONG PEOPLE LIKE THIS
WHO COME UP AND SPEAK OUT AT A
PUBLIC FORUM LIKE THIS.
I WANT TO KNOW PERSONALLY MY
WIFE LIVED ON BROWN COURT BACK
IN THE 1980S WHEN BROWN CAUGHT
I WAS UNDER A PROPOSAL TO BE
CONVERTED TO RESTAURANTS.
>> WE STILL KNOW PEOPLE THAT
LIVED ON THAT COURT THAT WE
BUILT COMMUNITY WITH THAT NOW
LIVE IN CHICAGO OR BALTIMORE OR
NEW YORK YOU WITH THE COMMUNITY
YOU SPEAK TO IS VERY MOVING.
THAT MEANS A LOT.
THAT SAID, I DO WANT TO SAY
THAT WE'RE A ZONING BOARD.
WE'RE NOT HERE TO CONSIDER A
DEMOLITION PERMIT.
WE'RE HERE TO CONSIDER A
VARIANCE BY OUR RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE TO
CONSIDER TO THAT I'D LIKE TO
SPEAK I LOOK AT THE
DETERMINATION WORKSHEET WE HAVE
AND I'LL QUICKLY READ OFF SOME
OF THE CONSIDERATIONS.
THERE IS A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
THAT IS EXCEPTIONAL AND
PECULIAR TO THE PROPERTY THAT
RESULTS FROM CONDITIONS THAT DO
NOT EXIST GENERALLY THROUGHOUT
THE CITY.
>> NO, THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
WHICH WILL RESULT FROM A
FAILURE TO GRANT THE VARIANCE
INCLUDE SUBSTANTIALLY MORE THAN
MERE INCONVENIENCE OR INABILITY
TO ATTAIN A HIGHER FINANCIAL
RETURN.
NO ALLOWING THE VARIANCE WILL
RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE
BEING DONE CONSIDERING THE
PUBLIC BENEFITS OF THE ZONING
ORDINANCE, THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES THAT WILL BE
SUFFERED BY A FAILURE TO GRANT
THE VARIANCE AND THE RIGHTS
OF OTHERS WHOSE PROPERTY WOULD
BE AFFECTED BY ALLOWING THE
VARIANCE THAT'S A MAYBE BUT THE
SPEAKERS HERE TONIGHT WEIGH
STRONGLY AGAINST SUBSTANTIAL
JUSTICE BEING DONE.
THE CONDITIONS AND CIRCUMSTANCE
OF THE PROPOSED VARIANCE ARE
NOT A SELF-IMPOSED PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY.
NO, A VARIANCE SHALL BE THE
MINIMUM VARIANCE THAT WILL MAKE
POSSIBLE A REASONABLE USE
OF THE LAND OR STRUCTURE.
NO.
SO THE VARIANCE BEING REQUESTED
BY MY READING OR UNDERSTANDING
OR IN MY OPINION DOESN'T MEET A
SINGLE ONE OF OUR STANDARDS.
ADDITIONALLY, THE PROPOSED THE
OWNER AND ARCHITECT HAVE OTHER
OPTIONS IF THEY WANT TO
INCREASE THE USE OF THEIR LAND
BY GOING WITH AN ALTERATION
INTO A NON CONFORMING STRUCTURE
WHICH DOES NOT HAVE QUITE AS
STRINGENT OF A SET OF CRITERIA
TO BE MET.
SO BY DENYING THIS VARIANCE WE
ARE NOT IF WE END UP DENYING IT
AND I'M GOING TO VOTE NO WE'RE
NOT NECESSARILY SAYING THAT
THERE'S NOT GOING TO BE A
DEVELOPMENT THERE.
THERE ARE OTHER OPTIONS THAT
THE OWNER AND ARCHITECT COULD
PURSUE TO DEVELOP THIS TO TAKE
DOWN THESE PROPERTIES AS THEY
ARE RIGHT NOW.
>> AND I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT
FOR THE PUBLIC RECORD BUT I
WILL BE VOTING NO ON THIS TO AS
AN UNDERGRADUATE I LIVE IN
NINETY THREE MARRIED SO I'M
VERY FAMILIAR WITH THIS AND
WITH A DAUGHTER WHO'S A SENIOR
GOING THROUGH THE SAME TYPE
OF HOUSING DIFFICULTIES, I CAN
EMPATHIZE AND APPRECIATE YOU
ALL COMING OUT.
I AGREE A LOT WITH WHAT DAVID
SAID IN TERMS OF THE UNIQUENESS
OF NOT ONLY HAVING THIS MANY
PEOPLE COME BEING NEW TO THE
BOARD BUT ALSO THE AREA ITSELF
AND THE OTHER ALTERNATIVES THAT
ARE THERE HAS GIVEN ME A LOT TO
THINK ABOUT.
NABIL AND THINGS I'M THINKING
OF .
I'M HOPING THAT MY COLLEAGUES
AND OUR STAFF CAN HELP ME THINK
THROUGH.
SO WHEN I LOOK AT WHAT THE THE
DIMENSIONS SIZE REQUIREMENTS
ARE FOR THIS, YOU KNOW, I START
THINKING ABOUT WHAT IS THE
LOGIC BEHIND THAT.
AND TO ME PART OF THE LOGIC
BEHIND IT IS HOW INTENSELY CAN
YOU DEVELOP THE PARCEL FOR THE
GIVEN SIZE?
NORMALLY I FEEL LIKE THAT'S NOT
SOMETHING WE REALLY THINK ABOUT
BECAUSE THESE USUALLY WHEN
WE'RE CONSIDERING THESE THEY'RE
ALTERING, ALTERING AND EXISTING
STRUCTURE AND THEY DON'T OWN A
BUNCH OF PARCELS AND IT DOESN'T
SEEM REASONABLY TO ASK THEM TO
DO IT LESS INTENSIVELY.
BUT IN THIS ONE IT SEEMS LIKE
AND I DON'T KNOW BUT IT SEEMS
LIKE MAYBE THERE IS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO RETHINK THE
PARCEL SIZES EVEN DOES THAT
COME INTO PLAY AT ALL ON THESE
CONSIDERATIONS WHEN SOMEONE HAS
SEVEN CONTIGUOUS PARCELS AND
THE PARCELS ARE NONCONFORMING
BECAUSE THEY WERE DRAWN BEFORE
THE ZONING BUT NOW THEY'RE
DEMOLISHING THE WHOLE SITE
BASICALLY I DON'T KNOW IF I'M
MAKING ANY SENSE BUT SO I'LL
ASK THE QUESTION THAT SORRY.
>> SO I'M THINKING ABOUT THE
REQUIRED YOU KNOW, THE SQUARE
FOOT LOT REQUIREMENTS FOR THIS
AREA ARE EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
AND MAYBE THAT'S TOO LARGE
GIVEN TODAY'S STANDARDS BUT
TWENTY THREE HUNDRED IT STRIKES
ME AS RATHER SMALL SO THE
DIFFERENCE THERE THAT'S WHY
THEY CAN BE BUYING A SINGLE
FAMILY HOME.
>> OK SO IT IS A COROLLARY FOR
INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT
BASICALLY SQUARE LIKE THE
AMOUNT OF SQUARE FOOTAGE AND
WHAT YOU'RE ALLOWING ON IT
CORRECT.
>> YEAH.
SO ANYWAY WHEN I LOOK AT THIS
PART OF WHAT I'M ALSO THINKING
IS THAT WE'RE NOT JUST DEALING
WITH SOMEONE MAKING AN
ALTERATION TO BUILD ANOTHER
STORY ON AN EXISTING STRUCTURE.
WE'RE DEALING WITH THE PROPERTY
OWNER THAT OWNS SEVEN PARCELS
THAT ARE CONTIGUOUS
AND IT JUST
SEEMS TO ME THAT THEY COULD BE
COULD THEY ALTER THE LOT SIZES
HAVE FEWER LIGHTS THAT WERE THE
RIGHT SIZE THEY DO A LOT
COMBINATION.
I DON'T WANT TO SPEAK FOR THE
OWNER OR THE ARCHITECT BUT I
MEAN YEAH, A LOT COMBINATION IS
ALWAYS POSSIBLE TO MAKE A LOT
OF MEAT TO MEET THE STANDARD
THAT SIMILAR HOW YOU WOULD BE
GAME.
YEAH RIGHT.
MENTATION LITERALLY FOR THE
LAST RIGHT THE FOLLOWING MONTH.
OK AND SO I'VE GOT YOU YEAH.
YEAH YOU'RE STILL GOING TO BE
GETTING YOU MIGHT BE GETTING
LOOKING AT THE CODE YOU MIGHT
GET TWO OR THREE UNITS BUT YEAH
IT DOESN'T MAKE ANY SENSE.
SURE.
OK GOT IT.
>> YEAH THANKS.
ACTUALLY I'M A FOLLOW UP SO I
MEAN THE ONE THAT YOU SAID THAT
YOU SAID DAVE WHEN YOU WERE
LOOKING AT THIS AND YOU'RE
GOING DOWN THE LIST OF THE
THINGS THAT WE CONSIDER AND I
APPRECIATE YOU DOING SO.
YOU KNOW ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
YOU SAID NO TO IS THE
CONDITIONS AND CIRCUMSTANCE
OF THE VARIANCE ARE NOT A SELF
IMPOSED PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY.
NO, I DON'T UNDERSTAND HOW
THAT'S SO CLEAR CUT AND THEY'RE
NOT REALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
LOT SIZES.
WELL, PEOPLE ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR HAVING TO CORNER A LOT
EITHER THEY JUST HAPPEN TO HAVE
A I'M I'M READY TO READ THE
RESOLUTION IF OTHER PEOPLE WANT
TO WEIGH IN.
I'M HAPPY TO WAIT SORRY BUT
THIS ONE IS TOUGH FOR ME
BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN SAID HERE
TONIGHT THAT I AGREE WITH BUT I
DON'T THINK ARE NECESSARILY JIM
,GERMANE TO OUR DISCUSSION.
SO THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
THE PROPERTY OWNER COULD
RECONSTRUCT ANY OF HIS PLANS TO
BUILD EXACTLY WHAT HE HAS
THERE.
NO, I THINK NO HE COULD HAVE
YOU CAN TELL ME WHAT YOU CAN DO
YOU CAN DO AN ALTERATION BUT
ONCE YOU EXCEED SEVENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE APPRAISED VALUE
AS DETERMINED BY THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL, THEN YOU LOSE YOUR
NONPERFORMING STATUS SO THEY
WOULD HAVE TO DO A COST
ANALYSIS AND PROVE THAT THEY'RE
NOT ALL EXCEEDING THAT SEVENTY
FIVE PERCENT LIKE WE DON'T
WE'VE HAD PREVIOUSLY PEOPLE I
JUST DO A DEMOLITION AND LEAVE
THE FOUNDATION ONE WALL.
WE'VE HAD A COUPLE
OF COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS ATTEMPT
AND ENDED UP THEY HAD TO DO A
SITE PLAN BECAUSE THEY WERE
TRYING TO AVOID SAFETY.
BUT SOMETHING LIKE THIS LIKE
COULD YOU TEAR OFF THE ROOF AND
CREATE A THIRD FLOOR?
YEAH, I DON'T THINK THAT WOULD
EXCEED THE SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
.
COULD YOU SEE ANY WAY AND SHORE
UP THE FOUNDATION AND ALL THAT
AT SOMETHING THAT WOULD HAVE TO
BE DETERMINED BY THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL AND IT HAD THE
ENGINEERING REPORT AND ALL
KINDS OF DIFFERENT OBSTACLES
THAT I REALLY WANT TO SPECULATE
.
OK SO ANYWAY IT'S HARD FOR ME
TO THINK THROUGH BECAUSE I
GUESS I'M THINKING THROUGH THE
THINGS THAT YOU KNOW, WE DON'T
CONTROL AS A ZIEBA AND THAT
COULD HAPPEN REGARDLESS AND THE
THINGS THAT WE ACTUALLY DO.
BUT FROM WHAT I'M HEARING IN
THIS CONVERSATION IN POINT
OF FACT ARE GRANTING US IS WHAT
ALLOWS THESE TO BE DEMOLISHED.
THE OWNER HAS THE RIGHT TO
DEMOLISH THESE BUT IT'S JUST A
MATTER OF WHETHER HE CAN
REBUILD IT WITH THAT VARIANCE.
WELL, THAT'S TRUE AND THAT'S
KIND OF WHERE I WANT TO GET US
BACK TO ON TRACK IS ARE YOU
GOING TO GRANT A VARIANCE FOR
THESE STRUCTURES FOR THE FOR
THE RESERVES AND THE SIDES AND
SOME OF THEM.
BUT WHEN I READ THEM GET TO
THEM THAT'S KIND OF THE ISSUE
AT HAND.
JULIE.
SO WE HAVE A LOT BUILDINGS IN
THE CITY THAT ARE NONCONFORMING
AND I DON'T KNOW WHERE I'M
GOING WITH THIS.
SO I DO THINK THIS IS A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT WHEN WE SEE ALL
OF THESE IN A ROW AND I KNOW
WE'VE SEEN ANOTHER ONE THAT
CAME BEFORE US AND I THINK I
ALSO STRUGGLE BECAUSE I LOVE
MARY COURT.
I THINK IT'S GREAT LIKE BUT
FROM FROM WHAT WE HAVE TO LOOK
AT I DON'T IS IT A PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY THAT'S EXCEPTIONALLY
PECULIAR TO THE PROPERTY?
>> WELL NO.
WE HAVE A LOT OF NONCONFORMING
BUILDINGS AND A LOT
NONCONFORMING LOT SO THAT ONE'S
HARD THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
INABILITY TO ATTAIN A HIGHER
FINANCIAL RETURN.
I MEAN I THINK THAT IS KIND
OF WHERE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
IT'S A HIGHER FINANCIAL RETURN
SO I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THAT BUT
JUSTICE BEING DONE I MEAN MAYBE
AND I WORRY ABOUT THINGS LIKE
FIRE RISK.
I MEAN SOME OF THESE HOUSES ARE
REALLY CHOPPED UP AND THEY'RE
NOT ALWAYS SAFE HOPEFULLY THEY
ARE ALL SAFE BUT YOU KNOW THAT
THAT CAN BE AN ISSUE AND I
DON'T I DON'T KNOW I'M NOT
HELPING AND IT'S IT'S NOT
SELF-IMPOSED I DON'T THINK
ALTHOUGH I MEAN IT IS WHEN YOU
BUY THESE AND YOU BUY SEVEN
OF THEM, YOU SHOULD THERE
SHOULD BE SOME DUE DILIGENCE AS
TO IF THESE ARE CONFORMING OR
NOT CONFORMING PROPERTIES.
I THINK I THINK I CAN SEE ONE
PERSON NOT KNOWING TO DO THAT
IF YOU'RE JUST BUYING THE HOUSE
YOU CAN AFFORD.
BUT WHEN YOU'RE BUYING MULTIPLE
HOUSES THAT SEEMS SOMEWHAT MORE
SELF-IMPOSED TO ME.
I THINK THE MINIMUM VARIANCE I
THINK WHERE I MEAN THERE'S NOT
A LOT OF ROOM SO THEY'RE NOT
ASKING A WHOLE LOT BUT IT'S
STILL I MEAN THANK YOU FOR
LETTING ME SORT OF TALK THROUGH
THIS, BUT I IT'S IT'S A TRICKY
ONE.
I THINK IT'S DAVE I READ
THROUGH THE FIVE AND CAME TO
KNOW ON ALL OF THEM IN TERMS
OF THE MINIMUM VARIANCE THAT'S
RELEVANT.
BUT KEY TO THAT IS TO MAKE
POSSIBLE A REASONABLE USE
OF THE LAND OR STRUCTURE RIGHT
NOW AS IT IS THERE'S A
REASONABLE USE SO IT'S BEING
USED REASONABLE IN ADDITION,
THE THE OWNER HAS OTHER OPTIONS
FOR HOW TO PURSUE THIS AND SO I
DON'T SEE THAT THE VARIANCE I
MEAN ANYWAY I SAID I'M GOING TO
VOTE NO WITH MY REASONS AND IF
AS BUT I DO I REALLY APPRECIATE
HEARING EVERYBODY'S POINT
OF VIEW ON THIS.
>> THAT'S A HARD THING FOR SOME
PEOPLE.
THIS IS A HARD AND I'M
STRUGGLING WITH IT BECAUSE I
APPRECIATE THE OWNERS DESIRE TO
UPGRADE THE BUILDINGS TO MAKE
THEM A BIT MORE SUSTAINABLE, A
BIT NICER, A BIT MORE MODERN I
GUESS MAYBE A BIT SAFER.
BUT I'M STRUGGLING A LITTLE BIT
WITH THE FINANCIAL RETURN
REQUIREMENT OF OUR OF OUR
STANDARDS BECAUSE IT FEELS LIKE
IF YOU'RE GOING TO TEAR DOWN A
BUILDING THAT'S THERE AND BUILD
ESSENTIALLY A BUILDING IN THE
SAME FOOTPRINT JUST WITH A
COUPLE MORE BEDROOMS OR A
COUPLE MORE UNITS, THE ONLY
REASON BEDROOMS.
YES, THE ONLY REASON TO DO THAT
WOULD BE TO INCREASE YOUR
FINANCIAL RETURN.
AND AS DAVE MENTIONED, THAT'S I
MEAN IT'S NOT IT'S AN
INCONVENIENCE.
I MEAN AND THERE'S OTHER
OPTIONS.
I THINK IF YOU REALLY WANTED TO
GET MORE BEDROOMS YOU COULD
ALTER THESE STRUCTURES AND ADD
A THIRD FLOOR AND RENOVATE THE
BUILDINGS AS THEY SIT NOW AND
ULTIMATELY ACHIEVE THE SAME
GOAL IS IT IS COST EFFECTIVE OR
EASY MAYBE?
I DON'T KNOW BUT IT IS
POSSIBLE.
SO THAT'S KIND OF WHERE I'M
HUNG UP AND CAN WE ASK THE
ARCHITECT IF THEY LOOKED AT
OPTIONS TO YEAH YEAH.
TO TO EXPAND THE THE ATTIC
SPACE JUST TO SEE IF IT WAS
VIABLE
.
I'M HERE TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION.
IT IS VIABLE TO TO ADD A
BASICALLY ADD A THIRD FLOOR TO
ALL THE STRUCTURES.
IT'S YOU KNOW YOU'RE STILL
DEALING WITH MOST OF THE
BUILDING BEING YOU KNOW OVER
100 YEARS OLD AND YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO HAVE YOU KNOW, AS GOOD
A STRUCTURE AND AS GOOD OF A
THERMAL ENVELOPE.
BUT AND IN TERMS OF SAFETY,
SOMEONE MENTIONED, YOU KNOW,
WITH THE NEW LOCATION THAT
WE'RE PROPOSING, THERE'LL BE A
LEGAL DISTANCE BETWEEN EACH
HOUSE WHERE WHERE THEY ARE NOW
SINCE THEY'RE KIND
OF HELTER-SKELTER ON EACH LOT.
SO SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, THE
SAFE
FIRE SAFETY WILL BE
IMPROVED WITH THE VARIANCE AND
AND JUST TO ADDRESS THE
CHARACTER A LITTLE BIT, YOU
KNOW, AND NOT THAT YOU THE
CURRENT OWNER DOESN'T WANT TO
DO THIS BUT I WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT YOU KNOW A LOT OF OWNERS
OUT THERE IF THEY BOUGHT THESE
SEVEN THEY WOULD COMBINE GOING
TO DHARMA'S POINT.
THEY WOULD COMBINE ALL SEVEN
LOTS AND JUST BUILD ONE BIG
TALL BUILDING THERE.
AND SO I WANT TO STRESS THE
FACT THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
CURRENT OWNER IS KIND
OF BENDING OVER BACKWARDS NOT
TO DO THAT BECAUSE THAT'S KIND
OF WHAT SOMEONE WAS ONLY
INTERESTED IN CASH-FLOW IT'D BE
A LOT CHEAPER TO BUILD ONE
BUILDING WITH SEVEN UNITS THAN
SEVEN HOUSES.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
THANK YOU.
WERE THERE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS
FOR I JUST WANTED TO MAKE
ANOTHER STATEMENT.
YEAH I DO WANT TO SAY I FEEL
LIKE THE HOMEOWNER IS MAKING A
RESPONSIBLE PROPOSAL TO IMPROVE
THE PROPERTIES AND KEEP THE
CHARACTER PRETTY MUCH THE SAME
AS IT IS AND I KNOW THAT AND AS
I SAID, WE'RE NOT HERE TO
APPROVE OR DISAPPROVE A
DEMOLITION.
WE'RE HERE ON THE ZONING
ISSUES.
I'M GOING TO VOTE NO ON ZONING
ISSUES BUT I I WANT PEOPLE TO
KNOW I FEEL LIKE THE HOMEOWNER
ARE THE PROPERTY OWNER IS
RESPONSIBLY TRYING TO IMPROVE
THE HOUSING SITUATION THERE.
THAT SAID, I'M STILL GOING TO
VOTE NO BECAUSE OF THE ZONING
ISSUES AND I'M READY TO READ
THINK WE'RE READY FOR THE
MOTION.
AND SO THE QUESTION IS AND I
GUESS SHOULD WE DO THESE
INDIVIDUALLY OR LUMP THEM
TOGETHER INDIVIDUALLY BECAUSE
THEY'RE ALL SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
.
ZEBA TWENTY FIVE DASH OR ZERO
TO FIVE SIX ONE MARY COURT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS INVARIANTS OF 18 FEET
FROM THE SECTION TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS IF GRANTED THE
VARIANCE WILL ALLOW THE
EXISTING RESIDENCE TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR LINE
THE TWENTY THREE HUNDRED EIGHT
SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM 8500 SQUARE FOOT LOT
REQUIREMENT FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
>> THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT.
YEAH, THANK YOU DREW PETIT NO
NO
.
I ALSO VOTE NO DHARMA YES.
JULIE NO DAVE DAVE ALREADY KNOW
CHRISTINA YES.
THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
MOVING ON TO YES ZIBA TWENTY
FIVE TWO ZERO ZERO TWO SIX SIX
OH THREE MARRIED COURT DAVID
LEWIS REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY
OWNERS REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF 18 FEET FROM THE SECTION.
WHY DO I KEEP SAYING SECTION
TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH
ONE SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DWELLING DISTRICTS IF GRANTED
THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW THE
EXISTING RESIDENCE TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF THE NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR
OUTLINE THE REQUIRED REAR STEP
BACK FOR THE HOUR FORCE
DISTRICT IS THIRTY FEET THE ONE
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED EIGHT
SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM OF EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT LAYOUT REQUIREMENT
FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE PROPERTY ZONED OUR SEE
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT THE NOT FOR MODEST
PERMITTED TO USE THE RNC
DISTRICT DIMENSION'S PER
SECTION FIVE POINT THIRTY TWO
POINT THREE NONCONFORMING LOT
OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE AND I'VE ALREADY GIVEN THE
PRESENTATION FOR THAT.
SO IF YOU GUYS WANT TO GO AHEAD
AND GO INTO DISCUSSION FOR THIS
OR IF THERE'S ANYONE WHO WANTS
TO SPEAK ANYTHING NEW, I DON'T
HAVE ANYTHING OTHER THAN THAT
SAYING THE DISTRICT OR THE
VARIOUS REQUESTS IS THE SAME
THAT A LOT IS SMALLER THAN THE
PREVIOUS LOT.
I'M WILLING TO READ THE
RESOLUTION UNLESS SOMEBODY
WANTS TO SPEAK TO ME THAT
QUESTION DO I HAVE TO DO A
PUBLIC HEARING?
CAN WE SAY THAT THE FIRST
PUBLIC HEARING WAS FOR ALL
OF THE THINGS YOU GUYS CAN DO
WHAT YOU WANT?
WE COULD ASK IF ANYBODY THE
PUBLIC WANTS TO SPEAK TO THAT
RIGHT.
I WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
IF THERE'S ANYONE WISHES TO
SPEAK OTHERWISE WE'LL CARRY ALL
OF THE PREVIOUS COMMENTS
FORWARD AND WE SAID ALL THAT TO
EXPRESS ANY REMOTE PARTICIPANTS
.
THERE ARE NO GREAT THANK YOU,
COURTNEY.
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION.
>> TAKE IT AWAY.
DAVE ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ONE
ZERO TWO SIX SIX OH THREE MARY
CAUGHT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF 18 FEET FROM
SECTION TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED, THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR.
A LOT LOT LINE THE TWENTY THREE
HUNDRED EIGHT SQUARE FOOT NON
CONFORMING PARCEL DOES NOT MEET
THE MINIMUM E 500 SQUARE FOOT
LOT REQUIREMENT FOR THE
DISTRICT.
THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT FOR THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU D WE HAVE A MOTION TO
HAVE SUPPORT.
YEP THANK YOU DREW DARMA.
YES JULIE NO DAVE GIVATI NO
CHRISTINA YES PATTY NO DREW NO.
I ALSO KNOW THE REQUEST IS
DENIED.
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO SIX
SEVEN NO TO SEVEN SIX OH FOUR
MARIGOT IT'S YEAH ZERO ZERO TWO
SEVEN SIX OR FOUR RIGHT WE JUST
DID SIX OH NO YEAH WE JUST DID
SIX ON THREE SIX FOR MARY COURT
DAVID LEWIS REPRESENTING
PROPERTY OWNERS REQUESTED OUR
VARIANCE OF TWENTY FEET FROM
THE TABLE FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN
DASH ONE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING DISTRICTS
.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TEN FEET FROM THE REAR LIGHT BY
THE REAR THE REQUIRED YARD STEP
BACK FOR THE OUR FOR DISTRICT
IS THIRTY FEET.
THE 1960S SQUARE FOOT LOT
SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT LOT REQUIREMENT FOR
THE DISTRICT.
THANK YOU JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING IF THERE'S
ANYONE THAT WISHES TO SPEAK I'M
ASSUMING THERE ARE STILL NO
REMOTE CALLERS OR PARTICIPANTS.
THERE ARE STILL NO EXCELLENT
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
>> WE CAN DISCUSSION LIKELY
READY FOR EMOTION MOTION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH 002 SEVEN SIX
FOUR MARY COURT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
INVARIANTS OF TWENTY FEET FOR
SECTION TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR LINE
THE TWENTY THREE HUNDRED EIGHT
SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM 8500 SQUARE FOOT PLOT
REQUIREMENT FOR THE DISTRICT.
THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU D WE HAVE A MOTION TO
HAVE SUPPORT.
YES THANK YOU CHRISTINA DREW NO
I ALSO VOTE NO DARMA YES JULIE
NO DAVE DAVE ALREADY KNOW
CHRISTINA YES PATTY NO REQUEST
IS DENIED.
MOVING ON TO THE KITCHEN ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE DESH ZERO ZERO TWO
EIGHT SIX OH FIVE COURT JOHN
SIX OH FIVE MARY COURT DAVID
LIST REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY
OWNERS REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF 18 FEET FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TEN FEET TWELVE FEET FROM THE
REAR LINE.
THE REQUIRED YARD SET BACK FOR
THE HOUR FORCE DISTRICT IS
THIRTY FEET THE ONE THOUSAND
NINE HUNDRED SIXTY SQUARE FOOT
NOT CONFORMING PARCEL DOES NOT
MEET THE MINIMUM 8500 SQUARE
FOOT LOT REQUIREMENT FOR THE
DISTRICT.
THANK YOU JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS?
RIGHT OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING
ANYONE WISHES TO SPEAK SAYING
NOBODY PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
.
>> THERE ARE NO FORMAL THANK
YOU COURTNEY MOTION ZEBA TWENTY
FIVE ZERO ZERO TWO EIGHT SIX
FIVE MARY COURT IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE ESTABLISHED STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
A VARIANCE OF 18 FEET FROM
THE
SECTION TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR LINE
THE TWENTY THREE HUNDRED EIGHT
SQUARE FOOT NOT CONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT LOT REQUIREMENT FOR
THE DISTRICT.
>> THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVID.
WE HAVE SUPPORT.
THANK YOU DREW.
>> I VOTE NO DHARMA YES JULIE
NO DAVE PARTY NO CHRISTINA YES
PATTY DREW NO REQUEST DENIED
MOVING ON TO PETITION ZIBA
TWENTY FIVE ZERO ZERO TWO NINE
SIX ZERO SIX MARY COURT JOHN
SIX OH SIX MARY COURT DAVID
LEWIS REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY
OWNERS REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF TWENTY FEET FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS IF GRANTED THE
VARIANCE WILL ALLOW THE
EXISTING RESIDENCE TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TEN FEET FROM THE REAR LINE.
THE ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED
SIXTY SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT LOT REQUIREMENT FOR
THE DISTRICT.
THANK YOU JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING ANYBODY THAT
WISHES TO SPEAK SEEING NO ONE
GUESSING THERE'S STILL NOT ANY
GARAGE.
I REALLY WANT SOMEONE TO CALL
IN JUST FOR THE LAST BUT JUST
FOR FUN.
I TEXT MY HUSBAND.
>> THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
AND WE ARE READY FOR A MOTION.
I THINK OCEAN ZIBA 25 ZERO ZERO
TWO NINE SIX OH SIX MARY COURT
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE OF TWENTY FEET FROM
SECTION TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN ONE SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING DISTRICTS
.
IF GRANTED, THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENTS TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR LINE.
THE TWENTY THREE HUNDRED EIGHT
SQUARE FOOT NONCOM IN PARCEL
DOES NOT MEET THE MINIMUM
EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
PLOT REQUIREMENT FOR THE
DISTRICT.
THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAVID.
WE HAVE SUPPORT FOR THANK YOU
PATTY.
TRULY NO DAVE I DID ALREADY
CHRISTINA YES PATTY SO DREW NO
I ALSO VOTE NO DHARMA YES.
THE REQUEST IS DENIED MOVING ON
TO PETITION ZIBA TWENTY FIVE
DESH ZERO ZERO THREE ZERO SIX
ZERO SEVEN MARY COURT JOHN SIX
OR SEVEN MARY COURT DAVID LEWIS
REPRESENTING THE PROPERTY
OWNERS REQUESTING A VARIANCE
OF 18 FEET FROM TABLE FIVE
POINT SEVENTEEN US ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE ALLOW
THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO BE
DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE LOT LIKE A
ONE FOOT SIDEBOARDS UP THAT
VARIANCE ON THE ALLEY SIDE.
THE EAST SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
IS ALSO BEING REQUESTED.
THE REQUIRED REVIEW ARE SET
BACK FOR THE HOURS OF FORESE
DISTRICT IS THIRTY FEET IN THE
SIDE YARD REQUIREMENT IS FIVE
FEET THE ONE THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED AND FIFTEEN SQUARE FOOT
NONCONFORMING PARCEL DOES NOT
MEET THE MINIMUM 8500 SQUARE
FOOT LOT REQUIREMENT FOR THE
DISTRICT.
THANK YOU JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS ALL RIGHT AT THIS
POINT WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING IF ANYONE WHO WISHES TO
SPEAK, NOW'S YOUR CHANCE.
COLERAIN
MAKE OUT ALL RIGHT.
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE WERE READY FOR A MOTION
MOTION.
DAVE AMI YOU'RE DOING GREAT
ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE ZERO SIX OR SEVEN MARY
CAUGHT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS
VARIANTS OF 18 FEET FROM
SECTION TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
TWELVE FEET FROM THE REAR FLAT
LINE ALSO A ONE FOOT SIDE YARD
SETBACK VARIANCE ON THE EAST
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY IS ALSO
BEING REQUESTED.
THE NINETEEN FIFTEEN SQUARE
FOOT NONCONFORMING PARCEL DOES
NOT MEET THE MINIMUM EIGHTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT LOT
REQUIREMENT FOR THE DISTRICT.
>> THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
THANK YOU DAY TO SUPPORT.
THANK YOU CHRISTINA JULIE YES.
NO I WAS GETTING DELIRIOUS.
I KNEW I WAS GOING TO IT.
DAVE DAVE.
YOU ALREADY KNOW CHRISTINA.
YES.
>> PATTY NO DREW NO.
I ALSO VOTE NO DHARMA YES.
THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
LAST BUT NOT LEAST PETITION'S
QUBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
THREE ONE SIX ZERO EIGHT MARY
COURT JOB SIX OH WAIT MARY
COURT DAVID LEWIS REPRESENTING
THE PROPERTY OWNER IS
REQUESTING A VARIANCE OF TWENTY
SIX FEET FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
FOUR FEET FROM THE FLAT LINE A
ONE FOOT SIDE YARD SETBACK
VARIANCE ON THE ALLEY EAST SIDE
OF THE PROPERTY IS ALSO BEING
REQUESTED THE ONE THOUSAND
SEVEN HUNDRED FORTY ONE SQUARE
FOOT NONCONFORMING PARCEL DOES
NOT MEET THE MINIMUM EIGHTY
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT LOT
REQUIREMENT FOR THE DISTRICT.
>> THANK YOU JOHN.
ANY QUESTIONS RIGHT OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS THE LAST ONE SO THIS IS
EVERYONE'S LAST CHANCE TO SPEAK
ON THIS.
IF WE MISSED ANYBODY NOBODY
STILL.
ALL RIGHT.
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED AND I
BELIEVE WE'RE READY FOR OUR
LAST MOTION PRIOR TO THE
MOTION.
I WANT SAY AND COMMENT I WANT
TO THANK EVERYBODY ALL THE
CABLE VIEWERS AT HOME WHO ARE
STILL WATCHING AND THE
ASSEMBLED INTERESTED INDIVIDUAL
WHO ARE HERE.
I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR BEING
PART OF THIS PROCESS AND I WANT
TO THANK MY FELLOW BOARD
MEMBERS FOR SHARING THEIR
OPINIONS ON US AS WELL AND I'LL
MAKE THE MOTION.
THANK YOU, DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
FIVE D'ASTIER ZERO THREE ONE
SIX EIGHT MARY COURT IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS VARIANTS OF TWENTY SIX
FEET FROM SECTION TABLE FIVE
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
DISTRICTS.
IF GRANTED THE VARIANCE WILL
ALLOW THE EXISTING RESIDENCE TO
BE DEMOLISHED AND CONSTRUCTION
OF A NEW THREE STOREY SIX
BEDROOM DWELLING TO BE LOCATED
FOUR FEET FROM THE REAR FLAT
LINE A ONE FOOT SIDE YARD
SETBACK VARIANCE ON THE
ESTABLISHED SIDE OF THE
PROPERTY IS ALSO BEING
REQUESTED.
THE SEVENTEEN HUNDRED FORTY ONE
SQUARE FOOT NONCONFORMING
PARCEL DOES NOT MEET THE
MINIMUM EIGHTY FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FOOT REQUIREMENT FOR THE
DISTRICT.
THE NEW RESIDENCE IS TO BE
BUILT PER THE SUBMITTED PLANS.
>> THANK YOU DATE SUPPORT
REPORT CHRISTINA YES PATTY NO
TRUE NO I VOTE NO DARMA YES
JULIE NO DAVE DAVE ALREADY KNOW
THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
>> MOVING ON WE HAVE NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS NEW
BUSINESS REPORTS FROM COUNCIL
DHARMA YES.
I HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS SO
BOARD PROBABLY REMEMBERS THAT
WE GRANTED A VARIANCE TO THE
DEVELOPMENT BEHIND WHOLEFOODS
OR AND ANNIVERSARY AND CITY
COUNCIL JUST PASSED THAT
REZONING MONDAY NIGHT.
THE SECOND READING SO THERE
SHOULD BE A LITTLE WORD SECOND
PIECE OF NEWS IS THAT WE VOTED
TO DISTRIBUTE THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN FOR REVIEW SO NOW IT IS
WITH THE PUBLIC FOR THE SIXTY
THREE DAY MANDATORY PUBLIC
REVIEW PERIOD WHERE PEOPLE CAN
PROVIDE FEEDBACK TO ENGAGE
WEBSITE.
ALL OF THAT FEEDBACK WILL BE
COLLECTED AND SHARED.
IT'S EXPECTED TO GO BACK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR PUBLIC
HEARING AND FINAL
RECOMMENDATION WITH COUNCIL
CONSIDERING ADOPTION EARLY IN
THE NEW YEAR.
THANKS STAHMANN.
COMMUNICATION WE NOTED ALL
OF THE COMMUNICATION WE
RECEIVED AS PART OF EACH
INDIVIDUAL PETITION.
I WILL NOTE BRIEFLY THAT WE DID
RECEIVE A COUPLE OF LETTERS ON
THE LAFAYETTE PETITION.
IT WILL JUST CARRY THROUGH TO
THE NEXT MEETING WHEN THAT
COMES BACK PUBLIC COMMENT
EVERYONE'S GONE.
BUT IF ANYONE WANTS TO TALK TO
THE CPA WE STILL ONE MORE
CHANCE THERE ARE NO CALLS, NO
CALLERS.
>> ALL RIGHT WITH THAT DO WE
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN?
THANK YOU, DARMA.
SUPPORT THIS ALL IN FAVOR.
SAY I OPPOSED.
>> WE ARE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYBODY.